It's possible that I’ll be the lone voice in the wilderness by expressing this opinion. No, that’s not quite true. I’ll guarantee I’ll be the lone voice in the wilderness by expressing this opinion. 

But what the heck. I’m going ahead with it anyway. I hope Sir Alex Ferguson wins his appeal against the improper conduct charge lodged against him by the FA after his remarks about referee Martin Atkinson after United’s 2-1 defeat at Chelsea. 

You see, I don’t want Fergie banned from the touchline for four or five matches. I want to see more of him – not less of him. I want to hear more from him – not hear less from him. 

Because, in my book, he is 24-carat box office. His antics on the touchline and his rants off it help make the Premier League what it is – theatre at its most compelling. Controversial and occasionally downright insulting but never, ever dull. And long may it continue. 

Let’s reflect back on United’s game at Stamford Bridge and try to work out why Fergie got so hot under the collar about Atkinson’s performance. 

On another day the Reds might – just might – have been awarded a penalty when the ball struck John Terry’s arm. 

On another day the Reds might have got away with the borderline penalty awarded against Chris Smalling. 

And, on another day, Chelsea would have been reduced to 10 men for a clear foul on Wayne Rooney by the defender David Luiz, who had already been shown a yellow card. 

Fergie had legitimate grounds for complaint. If he had said the referee hadn’t given his side a fair crack of the whip or hadn’t been strong enough to control the game it would have been reasonable comment. But when his blood is boiling, Fergie doesn’t do reasonable. He had to add that he ‘feared the worst’ when he discovered who the ref was. 

That’s what the misconduct charge will be based on – the United boss is suggesting that Atkinson had his own agenda before a ball had been kicked. 

You cannot say that about a referee without expecting some sort of backlash from the authorities and I suspect deep down Fergie accepts he overstepped the mark. When he appears before the FA, I hope he apologises unreservedly because he might get away with a touchline ban. 

But something tells me that the Glasgow Growler won’t. For him ‘sorry’ seems to be the hardest word. And a harsher penalty will see Fergie take his frustration out on Her Majesty’s Press – as proved yesterday when he refused to speak after the defeat by Liverpool and stopped his players from talking too. 

He will be shooting the messenger, of course, but he won’t see it that way. Fergie’s relationship with the media seems to be deteriorating with each passing year and that worries me intensely. 

For a long time now Sir Alex has believed there is a place for the press in football. As far as I am aware he is the only manager in the Premier League who doesn’t give after-match press interviews. 

I once asked him why he made that decision and he replied he was fed up at having to answer fatuous questions from journalists who knew absolutely nothing about football. I have to say he certainly had a point. 

Fergie believes he has reached the point where the press need him more than he needs the press. He’s right of course. He’s won everything and done everything. 

But I wish he would soften up on the hacks and the scribblers, who he has grown to despise. We need his opinions. If anyone alive knows more about football than Sir Alex Ferguson then I’ve yet to meet him. 

I would love to know what he thinks about the squalid events surrounding our failed World Cup bid or what would he do to bring sanity back to the ever-deteriorating Old Firm derbies. 

I suspect we are never going to learn Fergie’s opinions on the important issues in football. 

Losing his appeal against his improper conduct charge will drive an even deeper wedge between him and the press. 

That’s why I’m hoping he beats the FA rap. Warts and all I want to see him there on the touchline, pointing to his watch, berating the poor fourth official and foaming at the mouth. 

Long live ‘Fergie time’ and all the ill-thought-out rants. The Premier League wouldn’t be the same without him.