Throughout the country, on any given night, some streets are darker than others, with no inhabitants to make the slightest noise. In London’s Kensington, or The Bishops Avenue, the houses are grand, earning their wealthy owners more than most people make, simply by existing.

In Liverpool, Yorkshire and south Wales, the empty terraces, often whole streets, have no owners, no inhabitants, and no real chance of being brought back into use anytime soon. They act as tangible reminders of Britain’s industrial heyday, before capital was sucked towards the capital, and employment rates became geographically stilted.

The number of empty homes nationwide has fallen in the past decade, but their existence has become more politically toxic. Last week the Guardian’s investigation into St George Wharf tower in Vauxhall, south London, revealed the block was largely empty, bought up, and left to accrue profit in a city that is facing the biggest housing crisis for decades. In London, there are about 22,000 empty homes, which is a bitter number to digest if you’re struggling to clamber on to the housing ladder, or languishing on a council waiting list.

People get angry about empty housing because of its symbolic simplicity. In Britain, you could solve homelessness overnight by filling every empty house with a homeless individual, and still have properties leftover. The desolation of terraces in Liverpool and the Welsh valleys confront you with waste – no wonder Assemble won the Turner prize for bringing some Toxteth homes back into use, while other homes are being sold in Stoke-on-Trent for £1 (with terms attached) to people who agree to renovate and bring the homes back into use. In these areas, the number of jobs have dwindled and councils struggle with finances that could otherwise allow them to bring the homes back into use as social housing.

Contrary to scare stories, people don’t pop out for a pint of milk and find that squatters have moved in to their home
The emptiness of homes in St Ives, rural but picturesque parts of Wales and London is different though: that confronts you with the inequality at the root of the housing crisis. Those homes are empty because the owners have enough wealth to have “spare” homes, while others don’t even have one roof over their heads. The knock-on effects, ramping up property prices for locals, and leaving parts of the community empty for much of the year, have led to backlash: St Ives has voted to restrict second-home ownership, with residents arguing the area was being “financially cleansed”. In Wales, moves are afoot to charge double the rate of council tax for second and holiday homes: the country experiences a high level of deprivation, so understandably locals feel put out by wealthy holidaymakers taking advantage of lower than average house prices to nab a bolthole that’s mostly vacant.

The problem is twofold: the move to viewing houses as assets, a predictable investment that lets you turn a profit and offers more return on the pound than a pension, means there’s an incentive for wealthy buyers to invest in bricks and mortar without bothering with tenants. But also, as long as our economy gets sucked into a south-east vortex, more people will head to the capital for work, as the rest of the country struggles. George Osborne’s northern powerhouse claims to address this imbalance, twinned with the excruciatingly named “Midlands engine”. But with the announcement that 250 jobs in the very department responsible for rolling out the northern powerhouse are moving from Sheffield to London, that commitment looks as weak as the efforts to give it a catchy moniker.

 How we lost the battle for genuinely affordable housing
Campbell Robb
 Read more
As long as jobs fail to materialise in post-industrial towns, empty terraces will multiply. Conservative politicians have long opined that people seeking work should “get on their bike”, without stopping to observe that many do: hence the brain drain from the north and Wales, and the exponential demand for housing in the south-east England.

Houses should be lived in, most people would agree: so the government’s move to criminalise squatting is key to understanding the problem of empty houses. Contrary to scare stories, people don’t pop out for a pint of milk and find that squatters have moved in to their home. Squatters often took up residence in vacant buildings, and used the houses for their intended purpose: living in. Prosecuting squatters reasserts people’s right to treat homes as assets, not shelter.

When it comes to empty houses, it’s the inequality stupid. The inequality that means some can buy multiple houses, while others cannot rent one. That sees London swallowing up wealth, jobs and land value hikes, while parts of the country grow desolate. There shouldn’t be empty homes while some people sleep on the streets, but the fact that so many lie empty should worry us: many houses aren’t homes, they’re investment vehicles, and long term, they scupper all our chances of financial and social security.