Former Attorney General Eric Holder seems ready to be a character witness for Edward Snowden — if the one-man largest-intelligence-breach-in-US-history ever comes home to face the music.

The nation’s onetime top law enforcement official has declared that Snowden performed a “public service” by “raising the debate” on government surveillance.

Holder even said the courts, in passing sentence on Snowden, “could take into account the usefulness of having had” that debate.

–– ADVERTISEMENT ––



Snowden, recall, took a job as a National Security Agency contractor solely to steal millions of classified documents. He went on the lam in 2013 to China and then Russia even as his associates started releasing much of the info.

Moscow has given him refuge, though he stands charged with violating the Espionage Act. It’s still not clear what secrets he shared exclusively with his overseas “hosts.”

What makes Holder’s call for leniency especially galling is that he concedes, “There are ways in which certain of our agents were put at risk, relationships with other countries were harmed, our ability to keep the American people safe was compromised” by Snowden’s massive leaks.

As for that “debate,” CIA Director John Brennan has said the “reforms” imposed post-Snowden — like the end of NSA collection of “metadata” on overseas phone calls — made it far harder to identify terrorists and may have helped pave the way for attacks like the ones last year in Paris.

After all, if law enforcement can’t collect key “dots,” it gets tougher to connect them.

Holder’s statement was so over-the-top, the White House quickly announced that President Obama “does not” agree.

Then again, Holder made his comments to top Obama political adviser David Axelrod for “The Axe Files,” a podcast co-produced by an institute Axelrod runs. Makes you wonder if Obama will offer a different opinion once he’s left the White House . . .

Edward Snowden deliberately betrayed his country and ran to Vladimir Putin for protection. He deserves to rot in jail for life, or worse — and it’d be nice to know our nation’s leaders realize it.