Did you watch the leaders’ debate on Sunday night? Television ratings would suggest that you almost certainly didn’t. And even if you were one of the stoic few who tuned in, chances are you dozed off halfway through.	


Play
0:00
/
0:44
Fullscreen
Mute
1
Turnbull and Shorten deliver opening arguments

Speaking with painfully studious caution, and in stilted, overly rehearsed sound bites, it was not so much a debate as it was an exercise in automated lip-synching. It might have been Malcolm Turnbull and Bill Shorten doing the talking, but the words were unmistakably the concoction of a team of media advisers drunk on one focus-group finding too many.

It’s disappointing, this mind-numbing descent into banality and cowardice on the part of our elected representatives. Once a time to canvass ideas and discuss issues with vigour, election campaigns have become a passionless attempt to survive a 55-day countdown to polling day by saying as little as possible.

God forbid anyone go out on a limb with any bold new proposals or visions for the future — actually talking about things can land a person in serious trouble.


A debate, or an exercise in automated lip-synching? (Pic: Lyndon Mechielsen/News Corp)
So it’s disappointing, yes, but hardly surprising. That’s what happens when a country becomes one of the most thin-skinned nations on Earth.

And make no mistake, right now Australia is as risk averse as it has ever been.

We live in an era in which social media is held up the national barometer, even as such mediums increasingly house only the impatient and the self-righteous.

Some might hail it as triumph for democracy that staff for the Prime Minister and Opposition Leader would have been trawling Twitter to gauge reaction to their collective boss’s performance during the debate.

It’s not refreshing — it’s terrifying. Governance by hashtag is an invitation to receive even more timidity and hollow meaninglessness from those seeking our votes.

Relying on that beacon of intolerance, Twitter, which has turned into little more than a digital lynch mob constantly looking for its next (generally undeserving) target, is a shortcut to a political discourse dominated by the bored, the humourless and the sanctimonious.

In this nuance-free zone where thoughts exceeding 140 characters are unwelcome, anyone who dares to raise a polarising issue or make a joke that might possibly be misconstrued is pounced upon with a voracity once reserved for the truly offensive.

Deviate from the self-imposed censorship of this dour new world and within seconds you might find you have inadvertently kickstarted an #IStandWith movement in which the prone-to-hysteria types flock to stand in solidarity behind an allegedly aggrieved figure.

Who can blame a wary Turnbull and Shorten from tiptoeing around any matters of substance if to do so incurs the risk of them triggering an outpouring of pious #IStandWithNegativeGearing or #IStandWithTheMonarchy hashtags.

If there was any doubt as to just how spoiled sections of modern Australia have become, then the absurd reaction to McDonald’s opening a pop-up store in inner-Sydney’s Glebe over the weekend has put all doubts to rest.

Horrified at the prospect of free fries (the horror!) invading their suburb, residents gathered to protest outside Fries With That, rallied on a specially designed (of course) Facebook page and signed the ubiquitous online petition to oppose the McDonald’s store.


Residents were angered that a McDonald’s pop-up store was existing in their “village” for a whole three days. (Pic: Craig Wilson)
“This is an abomination,” Glebe resident Joanna de Jonge raged to Fairfax Media. “It is big business encroaching on a democratic society. This is a village and Glebe people are in uproar. McDonald’s food is riddled with salt, fat and cholesterol.”

Just quietly, Ms de Jonge, most of the cafes already lining Glebe Point Road specialise in food also riddled with salt, fat and cholesterol, and yet they are allowed to serve burgers, hot chips and other fried fare every day without prompting the circulation of leaflets calling for their immediate closure.

Then there was the confused mother who objected to her 14-year-old son being allowed to sample free fries “without parents’ authorisation”, even though he and his friends paid a visit to the pop-up.

This is not to make light of the very real problem that is a growing obesity epidemic in Australia. But a sullen and snooty clique believing it is their right to deign who should be allowed to access McDonald’s owes more to vanity than it does to any greater good.

Of more concern is that this nonsensical #IStandWithNonFriedFoods style carry-on is symptomatic of a culture unwilling to entertain any ideas outside of its comfort zone.

In an era in which prime ministers are removed at a giddying rate and those lucky enough to survive are mercilessly lampooned, it is a brave — some would say foolish — politician who dares go off script.

The result might appease those who can wallow in the success of #IStandWithTheBanalAndTheCowardly. But it’s a success that comes at a price — and a country that puts up with it will continue to be lumbered with the uninspiring and bland leaders’ debate it so richly deserves.