A world-renowned art collector and philanthropist has died in hospital four days after being knocked down by a bus in Oxford Street.

Baroness Marion Lambert, 73, suffered critical injuries when she was hit by a double-decker bus as she crossed the busy road outside Bond Street station at 4.45pm last Tuesday. She died in hospital on Saturday.

Along with her late husband Baron Philippe Lambert - a member of the Bank Brussells Lambert (BBL) banking dynasty – the baroness amassed one of the most extraordinary and valuable collections of 20th Century art.

A friend who had worked with her on a recent auction told the Standard: “She was a wonderful woman, very passionate about art and photography and her death has come as a tragic shock to us all.”

Baroness Lambert split her time between homes in Switzerland and Italy and is thought to have been visiting her son Henri, 37, who lives in Earl’s Court, last week.

It is the not the first time the family has been hit by tragedy. Baroness Lambert’s daughter Phillipine committed suicide aged 20 in 1997.

an99868611baroness_lambert.jpg
Baroness Lambert, who split her time between Switzerland and Italy
Swiss police investigated allegations of sexual abuse made by Phillipine against a family friend in her suicide note. 

The friend denied the allegation and after a protracted legal battle the public prosecutor in Geneva decided there was insufficient evidence for a criminal prosecution. 



Play
0:00
/
0:45
Fullscreen
Mute
Share
Baroness Marion Lambert on the BBC's The Extraordinary Collector
Baroness Lambert and her collection featured in BBC programme The Extrordinary Collector last month. It covered a Christie’s auction of more than 300 pieces, including an iconic 1953 portrait of Marilyn Monroe by Gene Kornman, and works by David Shrigley and Andy Warhol, which raised almost £15million at Frieze last October.  


READ MORE
Woman, 73, hit by bus in Oxford Street dies in hospital
She had worked closely with good friend, renowned auctioneer and art dealer Simon de Pury, on the sale. He was today said to be “deeply saddened” by news of her death.

Following her husband’s death in 2011, the baroness, said to have had a “unique artistic vision and eclectic eye”, set about dispersing more of their vast collection and raising money for charities including the NSPCC and Human Rights Watch.

Describing her lifetime devoted to collecting, she once told an interviewer: “Money is the opposite of art. Art is the expression of ideas – some of them very foresighted – of lofty ideals, of political insights, and of deep-felt emotions. As such, it should not be price-tagged.”

At the time of her first major sale in 2004 she said her son, a venture capitalist, had “no interest in art”.

Christie’s chairman, Francis Outred, who worked closely with Baroness Lambert paid tribute to her as a “visionary” who will be “deeply missed.”

Mr Outred, European head of post-war and contemporary art, said: “It was a pleasure and a privilege to work with Marion Lambert last year on the Visual Odyssey auction and an honour to help bring a collection born in Belgium and Switzerland to the heart of London; a city which she relished in exploring from East to West. 

“Her strength of personality and her unique vision electrified the Christie’s population. Marion’s vision as a collector across multiple categories was unparalleled and the photography collection that she built helped to create the photography market we know today.

“Never one to indulge in airs and graces, she was as happy directing the installation of the exhibition as she was hoovering the carpet before the opening at Ely House.

Intense, visionary, powerful and articulate she knew what she wanted in all aspects of life. Formidable and kind in equal measure, she will remain in our collective memory as one of the great collectors and a friend who will be deeply missed.”

The crash which killed her is being investigated by detectives from the Serious Collision Investigation Unit.

The driver of the bus, which is operated by Arriva, stopped at the scene and has been assisting officers with their enquiries.