Chris Evans has hit back at Top Gear ‘haters’ for a second time after the revamped show was criticised by viewers.

The relaunch was referred to as ‘Flop Gear’ by some who were left unimpressed by the chemistry between Evans and co-host Matt LeBlanc on Sunday night’s debut.

Others criticised Evans for being “too shouty” and accused him of trying too hard to imitate former host Jeremy Clarkson.

ADVERTISING

inRead invented by Teads
But, the BBC Radio 2 presenter has hit back at critics in a series of tweets listing the viewing figures - which have surpassed the 5 million he was hoping for.



Play
0:00
/
1:14
Fullscreen
Mute
Share
Viewers switch off as revamped Top Gear fails to impress
“More bad news for the Top Gear haters: consolidated figures for the first episode of the new series have now past 5.6 million and counting,” he tweeted.

“That's without the 1.2 million views (so far!) on the iPlayer. Obviously as these are THE ACTUAL FACTS, they'll continue to ignore them.”

 Follow
 Chris Evans ✔ ‎@achrisevans
More bad news for the Top Gear haters: consolidated figures for the first episode of the new series have now past 5.6 million and counting.
6:42 PM - 31 May 2016
  389 389 Retweets   2,416 2,416 likes
 Follow
 Chris Evans ✔ ‎@achrisevans
That's without the 1.2 million views (so far !) on the i Player. Obviously as these ate THE ACTUAL FACTS, they'l continue to ignore them.
6:45 PM - 31 May 2016
  93 93 Retweets   961 961 likes
His tweets come days after he hit back at initial attacks on the show by posting a string of ‘facts’.


READ MORE
Top Gear 2016: bookies slash odds of Chris Evans being dropped as host
He posted: “The new Top Gear is a hit. OFFICIALLY. 23% audience share. 12% MORE than the opening episode of the last series. These are the FACTS.”

In a second tweet he added: “Top Gear audience grew throughout the hour. FACT. Won its slot. FACT. Still number one on i Player. FACT. These are THE FACTS folks.”

Bookmakers this week revealed they have slashed the odds on Evans returning to helm a second series.

Ladbrokes is currently offering 1/4 odds for Evans to be axed after series one while Coral is offering odds of 10/11.

“The latest betting does not look good for Evans and LeBlanc as they are now odds-on to be dropped as presenters for the next series of the popular motoring magazine programme,” said Coral’s John Hill.

READ MORE

Top Gear: BBC defends Chris Evans after show branded ‘Flop Gear’ and Carol Vorderman ‘switched off’
Top Gear: Chris Evans hits back at critics following relaunch of BBC show
'It actually hurts watching the new Top Gear': Show branded 'Flop Gear' after losing a million viewers and being slammed by fans
BBC bosses are reportedly keen to secure LeBlanc for a second series, with The Sun reporting he has been offered a large sum. 

"Matt came across really well, he can drive and he certainly knows his motors," a source told the publication.

"Matt is crucial to the success going forward. Chris is not known across the world."