At the end of a long season for the Football Association’s charter standard club of the year, AHF FC, children in the under-eights, under-nines and under-11s are deep into enthusiastic friendlies at the excellent Witton Park football fields on the fringes of Blackburn. The club is open to all children, although they are mostly young Muslims, as it is run by the local Abu Hanifah Foundation, which emphasises a progressive interpretation of Islam and an aim of nurturing rounded young people who will make a positive contribution to wider British society.

They are playing regular opponents Fulledge Colts, predominantly featuring white children from Burnley, also a charter standard club, which means they have qualified coaches and sign up to the FA’s Respect campaign for better behaviour on the grassroots parklands.

Watching the children scamper after the ball, dinking it triumphantly into the small-sized goals of the under-eights pitch, the realisation slowly dawns that this youth football is being played to the sound of calm encouragement, not barking aggression. On two separate pitches, 30 girls are playing football, some in traditional headdress, overseen by Zuber Patel, the AHF head of coaching, a full-time FA coach employed nationally on its skills programme.


The stories you need to read, in one handy email
 Read more
One of the girls, Saarah Patel, aged 10, says she joined AHF at seven; she has always enjoyed football and been encouraged by her parents to play. “Some people think it’s strange, that girls don’t normally play football,” she says, “but why should boys have all the fun?”

The noticeable absence of shouting is the result of a concerted effort to explain positively to parents what is expected of them – as Yasir Sufi, the club’s secretary, puts it, “to support their child in their football development”.

Zuber Patel explains the coaching philosophy: to encourage players to be creative and express themselves on the ball. The parents’ role is to stand back and support, rather than become over-involved, an approach eased with cups of tea and coffee, set up on a trestle table a discreet distance from the pitches.

This fostering of a better environment for parents, as well as children, has been developed countywide by the Lancashire FA with an Adults in Football workshop, which the FA is planning to roll out nationally.

 AHF FC’s game keeps the crowd entertained at Witton Park.
Facebook Twitter Pinterest
 AHF FC’s game keeps the crowd entertained at Witton Park. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the Guardian
Samina Ali, standing near the tea and coffee flasks, watching her son, Muhammad, nine, playing in a 3-2 win, says the club has helped his confidence and development and given an outlet for a boy who was “like a jumping jack” when he was little.

Advertisement

“I am so pleased he is mixing with boys from everywhere and there are no barriers and divisions,” she says. Of her own presence on the touchline, she says: “I thought you wouldn’t get many mums watching but actually I haven’t found that; there are quite a few. I’m ever present, I want to give him that support.”

Muhamed Asif, aged 12, a keen player for AHF, is one of 13 members on its youth council, which organises trips, a fun day, and acts as a means of giving the children responsibility. Playing football has been all positive, he says; he suffered bullying at school but now says he is best friends with the lad who bullied him. “I think it is because we started to play together, so we were on the same level,” he says. “I wasn’t that good in the playground, people didn’t want me on their team, but with the coaching and training I have improved a lot, and now they do.”

When the games finish, Sufi reminds all the opposition players: “Don’t forget to get yourself a cupcake.”

And the Fulledge boys do, starting gleefully on the icing.

In tough east Lancashire towns whose inter-community relations are too often characterised by division, this football club, formed by Abu Hanifah as recently as 2012, has developed rapidly into a beacon for good coaching, integration and friendly sporting relations. Sufi explains that they believe in sport as part of the “holistic” philosophy taught by the foundation’s head, Sheikh Imtiyaz Damiel, and they run a scouts unit, too.

When they started, they entered children’s football teams to all-Asian community tournaments, but were not impressed. “We saw a lot of bad practice there, kids being shouted at, swearing, fights; there was too much ignorance about the right environment for children to play football,” Sufi says.

Advertisement

“Teams too often reflected the divisions within the Asian community, between Indian, Pakistani, Bengali. We have no barriers to who can play for us, and we decided not to enter these tournaments, to keep our children playing in the mainstream leagues. Now a lot of other Asian clubs are following our example.”

Peter Thornton, a Lancashire FA director, was an enthusiastic supporter of AHF’s application for the 2015-16 charter club of the year award. “As much as anything AHF do for football, they put a smile on people’s faces,” says Thornton. “They have raised the bar for other Asian teams and clubs, which are growing. More are becoming part of our league.”

AHF was awarded the national accolade from a competitive process initially involving around 400 charter standard clubs at county level. The FA cited AHF’s impact at the grassroots, coaching some 300 children who were not previously involved in structured football, and described the club’s inclusive approach, including involvement in inter-faith events, as “an example of best practice for clubs in multicultural areas”.

 Abu Hanifah Foundation FC
Facebook Twitter Pinterest
 Abu Hanifah Foundation FC has raised the bar for other Asian teams and clubs. Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the Guardian
Patel, casting his eye on the girls’ game, says he grew up in Blackburn, where he always loved football but struggled to find a role in it, partly because of parental expectations. Their families, he says, tend to want boys to be academic and have a “safe, stable, professional career”; even now, the club struggles to persuade some parents of the benefits their children will gain through sport. Nursing a passion to coach, Patel passed his level one course young, did a stint in the United States, found work with Blackburn Rovers and Manchester United at youth level, and worked his way through the coaching badges to gain his Uefa A licence at 26.

As an employee of the FA since 2009, Patel says he wants to be a role model for young Muslim people, and also more widely to enhance general understanding of Islam as a religion for peace and good values. The cupcakes and tea and coffee are part of this philosophy, providing hospitality to visitors.

“There are three key values to the club,” Patel explains. “The first is how we play, for the children to all develop as individuals, to be creative and brave on the ball. The second is coaching, based on skills, that is in the DNA throughout all the teams. The third is most important and really why we exist: to show who we are, our true values and character, in a public arena.

“Blackburn is segregated, everybody knows that. But it is about breaking that down, building good relationships and changing perceptions. Things can change, and we can be part of that. That, above all, is what we are here for.”

Then he tells the girls the session is over for today, and to help themselves to a cupcake.