A man claims to have been banned from a shop after being mistaken for a shoplifter.

Garry Barker, 50, was buying a bottle of bleach in Savers in Stalybridge when he was asked by a member of staff to leave the store and never return.

The dad-of-one claims to have been the victim of a mistaken identity and is demanding an apology from the store for being ‘publicly humiliated.’

Mr Barker, who lives in Stalybridge , said he was ‘an honest, hard-working man’ who had been wrongly accused of shoplifting.

ADVERTISING

inRead invented by Teads
Savers told the M.E.N they have carried out an internal investigation.

Mr Barker, who admits having an angry conversation in the shop, said: “I went in to buy a bottle of bleach because I was doing some cleaning.

Read: Police sergeant accused of shoplifting clothes tells court he 'thought they were being returned'

Read: Romantic thief caught stealing £25 bunch of flowers for his girlfriend

“I go in most weeks so I didn’t think anything of it. I joined the queue and then the manager came up to me with her arms folded.

“She said ‘we asked you to leave earlier so will you please leave.’ I was taken aback and in shock. I honestly thought it was a wind up.

“I was expecting Ant and Dec to appear and say it had all been a big joke.

“But it wasn’t. She said again ‘I asked you and your partner to leave earlier’.

“I stepped about 2-3 feet back from the queue and said ‘look you’ve got the wrong person’.

CLICK TO PLAY

Play
0:00
/
1:11
Fullscreen
Mute
Share
“I said ‘you’ll have to prove it if you think I’ve been shoplifting’.

“I’m a 50-year-old man who has never been accused of anything.”

Mr Barker requested to view the store’s CCTV footage to prove he had not stolen anything. He also asked staff to provide more details about who they thought he was and what he was alleged to have done.

“I said ‘if you’re accusing me of shoplifting, tell me when it happened,’” he added.

“At least then I could defend myself. But they wouldn’t and still haven’t.

“I think I deserve an apology for what happened.

Read: Shoplifter who was tackled and sat on by have-a-go-hero is jailed

Read: Manchester city centre stores warned as police called to EIGHTEEN shoplifting incidents in one day

“I was publicly embarrassed in a shop full of people and now I’m not allowed to go back into the store.”

The alleged incident happened at around 10.30am on Friday, May 6.

Mr Barker admits becoming angry in the store and taking pictures of the staff to prove who they were.

He said: “At no point did I use foul language, raise my voice or shout.

“It happened nearly a month ago and there has been no apology.”

A Savers spokesperson said they had carried out an internal investigation into Mr Barker’s complaint.

The spokesman said: “We are sorry that Mr Barker is not happy with the outcome of our internal investigation around his visit to our Stalybridge store on 6th May. We can assure him that we take all customer feedback very seriously.”

A GMP spokesman said they were not called to the incident.

