The family of a man who killed himself less than two hours after being discharged from a mental health unit have slated the system saying he should have never been allowed to leave.

Craig Creedon died from multiple injuries after jumping in front of a train at Eccles railway station in December, last year.

Earlier that day, the 31-year-old, who had struggled with depression since the death of his father in 2004, was found ‘dangling’ off the edge of the 14-storey Floral Court flats by police in Higher Broughton.

He was detained under the mental health act and admitted to Salford Royal hospital before being taken to the Meadowbrook mental health unit just a short distance away.

ADVERTISING

inRead invented by Teads
An inquest held in Bolton before Assistant Coroner for Manchester West Rachael Griffin heard how he underwent a full assessment by a team, which consisted of two psychiatrists - one independent - and a registered mental health worker employed by Salford council.

MORE: 'How many more must die?' Mental Health campaigners ask tough questions as friends mourn Alan Wise

Craig Creedon with partner Katie Burke
READ MORE: What people are saying about Manchester’s £1.5m mental health cuts

READ MORE: The nurse who nailed exactly how people feel about the mental health cuts

Craig’s family told the inquest that during the four hours he was in the care of Meadowbrook, they had several conversations with doctors and begged on multiple occasions not to let him leave.

Kathleen Creedon, Craig’s mother, described her son as a well-liked and popular man, but said he was very private about his battle with depression and tried to deal with his problems in his own way. She said he would often turn to alcohol and drugs as a coping mechanism, sometimes drinking up to nine litres of strong cider in a day.

When he was taken into Meadowbrook she said the family were relieved that he would finally be getting help.

“I told them whatever you do, don’t let him out. We were relieved that he actually got to Meadowbrook for his own safety, that he was going to get the help he needed. They asked if I thought he would do it again and I said yes, we know he will try to take his life.”

Ms Creedon says she was told the family would be updated with a phone call.

“The next call I got was to say my son was dead.”

READ MORE: More than 1,300 apartments given go-ahead despite outrage over lack of affordable housing

READ MORE: Animal cruelty couple admit rack offences that saw pets riddled with disease kept in cramped, barren conditions

Craig’s partner Katie Burke echoed this, saying she too had alerted doctors on the phone to his previous self harm and threats of suicide, as well as his ability to ‘tell people what they want to hear’ to get out of situations.

Meadowbrook say they took this into account during their assessment, but all three witnesses said that Craig displayed no evidence of being an immediate threat to himself or others, and therefore a section under the mental health act was not suitable.

It was heard how Craig - who had had his anti-depressants increased just days earlier - gave an explanation as to why he had been on the roof, saying he went to be closer to his dad as it was nearer to heaven.

The mental health unit claimed they were not aware of how Craig was found ‘dangling’ off the edge of the roof and he was deemed mentally and physically for discharge, with further care from the home treatment team.

The inquest was told how despite pleas by his family to inform them of the outcome of the assessment, only one attempt to call was made and no message was left.

Craig Creedon with his partner Katie Burke
READ MORE: Watch: MP movingly tells Parliament of his battle with depression

READ MORE: Mental health service in Manchester plunged into crisis as NHS trust axed and vital services cut

The contact numbers were not stored electronically, and instead kept in written form on his file which was taken away soon after.

The coroner and Greater Manchester West Mental Health Trust acknowledged there was failings in communication, and a review of policies has since taken place.

There was also criticism of urgent mental health referrals after it was heard a letter dictated by his GP on December 1 was never actioned due to an ‘element of human error’.

The coroner was given assurance that a review would also be conducted in this area. The family say there were serious failings within the mental health service and will be looking to take further action.

Peter Wareing, Ms Creedon’s partner, said they hold Meadowbrook fully responsible for Craig’s death.

“We always will,” he added.

The coroner returned a verdict of suicide.