Salford’s new City Mayor is backing Tony Lloyd in the Labour mayoral race.

Paul Dennett is supporting fellow Unite member and current interim Mayor of Greater Manchester Mr Lloyd, along with most of Salford’s Labour Group.

The move will be a bitter blow to contender Andy Burnham who had the support of Salford’s former City Mayor, Ian Stewart.

Mr Stewart, along with former Salford council leaders John Merry, and Bill Hinds have all pledged their support to Mr Lloyd.

ADVERTISING

inRead invented by Teads
Mr Dennett believes the vast experience of veteran politician Mr Lloyd, as former MP for Stretford from 1983-97, and then Manchester Central until 2012, when he stepped down to become Greater Manchester Police and Crime Commissioner, is key.

Thirty out of Salford’s 51 Labour councillors are also supporting Mr Lloyd. Five are supporting Ivan Lewis, five Mr Burnham, and the rest are undecided.

Backing: Salford's new City Mayor is backing Tony Lloyd
Read: 'Manchester has its confidence back' - Sir Richard Leese on 20 years heading up the town hall

Read: Ivan Lewis' mayoral bid gains support of two of Greater Manchester's newest council leaders

It is further proof of the Salford Labour Party’s shift to the political left.

Both Mr Dennett and Salford MP, Rebecca Long-Bailey are supporters of national leader, Jeremy Corbyn.

Mayor Dennett said: “As a Trade Unionist and socialist it was an easy decision for me to back Tony Lloyd for Manchester Mayor. Tony has been a lifelong friend of this city, having studied at our University. He has always been a supportive and friendly face in Salford Labour Party, keeping close contact with activists and members.

“He has an open, communicative approach to politics and is never too busy to chat with anyone. In his role as Police and Crime Commissioner, he has taken great interest in Salford and our crime problems - regularly attending our discussions and providing a lot of support. Before this, Tony had chaired the Trade Union Group of Labour MPs, and has always fought hard to represent the interests of working people in political life.

“The mood of our party is changing, and we need a candidate who reflects that shift in values. Tony is a candidate for who represents the future for our party, standing alongside our new membership and our anti-austerity position on the economy.

“For a hard-working, committed, Trade Unionist Mayor of GM, I would urge all members to use their vote to support Tony. If you want to see his credentials just follow his trail of support. There’s a good reason so many of the Unions support his campaign, and that’s because he has a proven record of fighting for our interests.’

The move will be a bitter blow to contender Andy Burnham who had the support of Salford’s former City Mayor, Ian Stewart
Read: Mayoral hopeful Andy Burnham demands region’s male-dominated ‘super-council’ makes half its leadership women

Read: Could Gary Neville, Bez or Karen Danczuk become the Mayor of Greater Manchester?

Rebecca Long Bailey MP said:‘I have known Tony since I was 5 yrs old and he is as dedicated now as he was then to improving the lives of communities across greater Manchester. Tony has always held a fierce sense of civic pride for the city he was born in. He has represented this region as MP Police and Crime Commissioner and Mayor but central to all of these roles was a clear passion for equality and fairness that underlines everything that he does.

‘I have no doubt that as Mayor he will create a Greater Manchester that rivals the big capital cities across the world, a real Northern Powerhouse, not the sham offered by the Tories. He will ensure that we take our rightful place as a leader in industry and innovation once again, where the spoils of wealth created are shared by the many not the few.

‘He has the skill, gravitas and genuine love for the people of Greater Manchester to make an exceptional leader and I support him 101%”