A rambler strides across picturesque moorland on a Sunday morning stroll - completely naked.

Wearing just a pair of boots and a rucksack, the brazen walker was spotted enjoying the fresh air and freedom in the hills above Bolton .

Former headteacher Chris Hoddle saw him on Winter Hill and took a photograph - from behind!

Temperatures in Bolton on the day reached a sunny 19C, and Chris said the rambler clearly wasn’t afraid to take full advantage of the heat by stripping off.

Chris, who doesn’t know the mystery man, joked: “It was a sunny day so I hope he had the appropriate sun tan lotion on!”

It isn’t an offence to be naked in public in England and Wales, but becomes an offence if it can be proved that a person took their clothes off with an intention to upset or shock.

Chris HoddleChris Hoddle chanced upon the naked man on Rivington Moor
Read: Naked sleepwalker approached a taxi outside city centre hotel then tried to get a selfie with police

Read: Hundreds of cyclists set to strip off for naked bike ride

Chris, from Smithills in Bolton, chanced upon the naked man on Rivington Moor last Sunday morning at around 10am.

He had walked onto the moors from Coal Pit Lane and was heading out towards Winter Hill at the time in order to carry out a risk assessment ahead of a primary school walk.

Chris was the head at Belmont Primary School until he retired four years ago, but still helps out.

He said: “I was doing the walk to make sure it was safe and secure for when the children come to do it.

“A dog came running past and was going crazy and I said to his owner that he needed to keep him under control.

“The owner said to me ‘It’s no wonder he’s scared given what’s walking behind you.’ That’s when I turned round and saw the naked man walking towards me. It’s not what you expect to see on a Sunday morning walk.”

The mystery naturist walked straight past him without saying a word.

Britain’s most famous naked rambler is Stephen Gough - a former Royal Marine from Eastleigh who has been jailed repeatedly for flouting court orders which prevent him from appearing unclothed in public places.

Known as the ‘Naked Rambler’, he’s famous for completing the 874 mile hike from Land’s End to John o’ Groats wearing only boots, and chooses not to wear clothes as a protest against the idea that nudity is offensive.