A model stabbed in the neck by a stranger in a row over smoking outside a takeaway today said his attacker’s 12-year sentence was: “not justice.”

Vagner Correia, 24, went to pick up dinner at the Best Kebab takeaway in Stamford Hill, north London, with his pregnant girlfriend and her cousin at about 8pm on October 24 last year.

An argument erupted as he waited outside as he repeatedly asked Nathan Chang-Time, 24, to stop blowing cigarette smoke towards him.

Louis Quatre, 21, a friend of Chang-Time, intervened and threatened Mr Correia, a former semi-professional footballer, saying: “Come around the corner and I’ll take your life”.

mod2.jpg
He spent four days in a coma after life-saving surgery after being stabbed in the neck
He then snatched a grey flick-knife Chang-Time was carrying and thrust it into Mr Correia’s neck before calmly walking away as his victim collapsed.

Both men denied attempted murder and wounding with intent. Quatre was convicted of the latter charge while Chang-Time was acquitted on both counts by a jury at Snaresbrook Crown Court.

Quatre was jailed for 12 years, while Chang-Time was jailed for 15 months for possessing an offensive weapon in public.


READ MORE
Man killed in spate of Bank Holiday stabbings in London
Mr Correia, from Hackney, who spent four days in a coma after life-saving surgery from medics following the attack, today hit out at the sentences.

He said: “Its not justice. They should be in jail for a much longer time for what happened to me. 

“If you carry a knife you must face stricter punishment and the way I was stabbed in the neck has to be attempted murder. Quatre should be in jail for life.”

Mr Correia, originally from Guinea-Bissau in West Africa, came to London five years ago from  Portugal to pursue a modelling career. He needed 30 stitches and has been left with a five-inch scar.

He said the “terrifying attack” left him with a brain injury meaning he had to leave a maths course at City and Islington College ahead of a business degree he is due to start next year.

He fears there will be long-term effects from the damage, which is still being monitored by doctors.

READ MORE

TOWIE star Jake Hall in intensive care after ‘stabbing’ at Marbella nightclub
Four stabbed as violent clashes break out after Luton Carnival
Shocking moment axe wielding driver confronts knifeman in the middle of an east London street
His life was saved by a passing medical student who he has since been unable to trace.

He said: “I have found it so hard to get over what happened. I was too scared to go out and I still look over my shoulder all the time and if I go near where it happened I get a flashback. 

“It’s hard that I have been affected in this way and yet one of the men responsible could be out of prison in just a few months.”

Passing sentence, Judge David Radford told Quatre: “You used that knife to stab an innocent person on the streets of London when you decided to intervene in respect of an argument about your co-defendant, and friend, smoking.

“It was no argument of yours and certainly provided not provocation or proper basis to become violent - let alone to persistently seek from your co-defendant the knife he was carrying.

“And when he refused to then circle around and obtain it for yourself and plunge it into his neck with moderate force to a depth of three or four inches in a life-threatening attack.

“It narrowly missed a key part of his blood supply, which if it had penetrated, would have ran a high risk of bringing about that young man’s death.’

He told Chang-Time: “I am told that as a result of what occurred that night you have realised the gravity of carrying knives on the streets of this country - something which plainly you accept that you did.

“It is quite clear that the carrying of knives by young people in London - and indeed anywhere in the jurisdiction - is a regular problem. The courts have said so persistently and it is a serious matter.”

Chang-Time, of no fixed address, said he was carrying the knife because of past clashes but now realised the gravity of carrying blades on the streets. 

Quatre’s lawyer said his client was the product of a “turbulent upbringing” which contributed towards “exacerbating his anger”.