Fatal shooting of gorilla turns into criminal investigation
By Natalie O'Neill May 31, 2016 | 4:40pm | Updated
Modal Trigger Fatal shooting of gorilla turns into criminal investigation
Harambe the gorilla in a photo provided by the Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden. Photo: AP
SEE ALSO
 Witnesses say slain gorilla was trying to protect child
Witnesses say slain gorilla was trying to protect child
The fatal shooting of an endangered gorilla at the Cincinnati Zoo became a criminal matter Tuesday when cops began probing the parents of the boy who wandered into the great ape’s enclosure, police said.

“The investigation is regarding the action of parents and family that led up to the incident and is not related to zoo operations. We’re looking into the incidents that led up to the incident,” Cincinnati Police Department spokeswoman Tiffaney Hardy told The Post.

The 3-year-old boy’s mother, identified as Michelle Gregg, was with the child Saturday, when he slipped past a fence and tumbled into the enclosure.

In a since-deleted Facebook post, the mother over the weekend defended her actions.

“God protected my child until the authorities were able to get to him. My son is safe and was able to walk away with a concussion and a few scrapes… no broken bones or internal injuries,” Gregg, 32, wrote in a post that was linked to the “Justice for Harambe” page.

“As a society we are quick to judge how a parent could take their eyes off of their child and if anyone knows me I keep a tight watch on my kids. Accidents happen but I am thankful that the right people were in the right place today.”

The boy’s father was identified as Deonne Dickerson, 36. Neither Gregg nor Dickerson immediately returned calls for comment Tuesday.

Modal Trigger
Mourners laid flowers for Harambe at a statue of a gorilla at the Cincinnati Zoo.Photo: Reuters
The zoo — whose handlers have explained they killed the gorilla to save the child’s life — is under the purview of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Hardy added.

Meanwhile, the animal rights group Stop Animal Exploitation NOW demanded Tuesday that federal authorities fine the zoo $10,000 for violating the Animal Welfare Act with an exhibit that allowed people to gain access to animals.

“The failure of the Cincinnati Zoo to adequately construct this enclosure to protect both the public and the animal held prisoner there is a clear and fatal violation of the Animal Welfare Act,” the group said in a letter of complaint to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

On Saturday, the 450-pound gorilla grabbed the boy and dragged him across a moat after he managed to get into the enclosure. But witnesses said the great ape appeared to be trying to help the child.

On Tuesday, a “Justice for Harambe” petition had raked in more than 343,000 signatures on Change.org. Some outraged animal lovers claimed the boy’s parents should be charged with a crime.

On the campaign trail, presumptive GOP presidential nominee Donald Trump added his two cents, saying the zoo had no choice but to kill the creature.

“I think it’s a very tough call…I mean, probably they didn’t have a choice. You have a child, a young child who is at stake, and, you know, it’s too bad there wasn’t another way,” he said.

He added, “I thought it was so beautiful to watch that, you know, powerful almost 500-pound gorilla, the way he dealt with that little boy, but it just takes one second. It’s one second…It just takes one little flick of his finger and I will tell you they probably had no choice.”


The loss of the 17-year-old gorilla was a blow to one of the world’s most successful endangered gorilla breeding programs, zoo director Thane Maynard said.

“It’ll be a loss to the gene pool of lowland gorillas. The loss of a breeding male is a big deal,” Maynard told the Cincinnati Enquirer.

The zoo, which has hosted at least 48 gorilla births, now has 10 gorillas in captivity.

There are only 745 gorillas in captivity worldwide and fewer than 175,000 western lowland gorillas in the wild.

Maynard has claimed zoo handlers were forced to kill the gorilla for the safety of the child. Harambe failed to obey orders to leave the open enclosure, forcing zoo keepers to gun him down, he said.

A spokeswoman for the zoo didn’t return calls Tuesday.