A court has granted a family rare permission for the remains of a Chinese Buddhist who died more than 20 years ago to be exhumed so he can rest with his wife at a temple.

Quoc Tru Tran, a practicing Buddhist, died suddenly from cancer in August 1994 and was buried a month later at Southern Cemetery in Chorlton .

His son, Tony Van Hon Tran, applied to the Church of England for permission to exhume his father’s remains so they could be cremated and interred alongside the ashes of his wife.

She died in February and her remains rest at the Buddhist temple of Manchester Fo Guang Shan in Old Trafford .

Geoffrey Tattersall QC, Chancellor of the diocese of Manchester, ruled after a hearing of the Church of England’s consistory court that an exhumation could go ahead.

In his judgement, he ruled that at the time of Mr Tran’s death, there was no Chinese burial ground in Manchester and the ‘only option’ was to bury him near to some Chinese graves.

GoogleManchester Fo Guang Shan in Old Trafford
Read: Southern Cemetery flags must be taken down, bosses tell grieving families

Read: Mapped: Southern Cemetery's famous graves

The family did not realise that the interment was in the Church of England consecrated section of the cemetery.

The judgement highlighted ‘language barriers’ which affected issues surrounding the death and said the family were new immigrants with ‘little understanding’ of UK culture or practices.

The ruling also ties in with Mr Tran’s wife’s last wishes.

The judgement, which diverts from the church’s normal rule that a final resting place must be just that, reveals the International Buddhist Progress Society Manchester has confirmed that a place has been reserved for his cremated remains next to hers in a private vault at the temple.

The court sits to consider matters relating to consecrated ground.

Mr Tattersall QC, who also sits as a court judge, said Mr Tran was buried at the cemetery ‘because he died suddenly and his relatives did not understand the customs and practices of the Church of England, or that he was buried in the Church of England consecrated part of Southern Cemetery.’

Saying it would be ‘extraordinarily harsh’ to apply Christian theology to an issues involving Buddhism, he added that he was ‘wholly satisfied’ that it was an exceptional case and one where he should grant permission ‘on the basis of mistake’. Mr Tran’s wife has not been identified further and it’s not know when any exhumation will take place.

Manchester city council, who are responsible for the cemetery, have confirmed that his remains can be removed without disturbing any other human remains, the judgement reveals.