Donald Trump to visit Britain the day after EU referendum to officially open new Turnberry golf resort
 Donald Trump drives his golf buggy during the second day of the Women's British Open golf championship on the Turnberry golf course in Turnberry, Scotland
Donald Trump drives his golf buggy during the second day of the Women's British Open golf championship on the Turnberry golf course in Turnberry, Scotland CREDIT:  SCOTT HEPPELL/AP PHOTO
list of article image 2
Sponsored
Top 10 Ryder Cup moments
Discover the good, the bad and the ugly from the Ryder Cup. Read more ›
 Telegraph Reporters
1 JUNE 2016 • 12:58PM
American billionaire and presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has announced he is to visit the UK on June 24 to officially open the Trump  Turnberry golf resort in Ayrshire.

The presumptive Republican nominee will attend a ceremonial ribbon cutting at the South Ayrshire resort on June 24.

Trump Turnberry's Ailsa golf course, which has played host to The Open Championship four times, has now reopened following a £200 million restoration.

Mr Trump said: "Very exciting that one of the great resorts of the world, Turnberry, will be opening today after a massive £200 million investment.

"I own it and I am very proud of it. I look forward to attending the official opening of this great development on June 24th."


His visit will come the day after the EU referendum.

The property was bought by Mr Trump in 2014 and is the second Scottish golf resort he has launched following the opening of Trump International Golf Links, Scotland, in Aberdeenshire in 2012.

The main Turnberry hotel building, which has been under construction since September last year, has been updated with the remodelling of all 103 guest rooms, bars and restaurants.

The Turnberry Lighthouse has been fully restored and converted into a £3,500 per night, two-bedroom presidential suite.

EU debate: Girl asks if UK is safer in or out if Trump becomes presidentPlay! 00:47
The property developer, whose mother Mary MacLeod was born on Stornoway, has always maintained Scotland was his first choice for a golf resort due to his family ties and the recognition of the country as the home of golf.

Ralph Porciani, Trump Turnberry manager, said: "We have always known that the newly-renovated Trump Turnberry would be among the finest hotels anywhere in the world. The Trump Organisation has spared no expense - it is a genuine masterpiece.

"Guests can expect an opulent and very private experience at Trump Turnberry, which is hidden away in a richly historic landscape with breathtaking views. No request will be too great and no detail too small."

