Actor Ryan Gosling, proud father of two, outspoken feminist, and probably your imaginary boyfriend, is known for being a proud advocate for the female sex. He’s consistently fought for more and better representation for women in Hollywood, claimed to be inspired by “strong female characters,” and not too long ago inspired a series of brilliant memes encouraging women to ask for raises. And he’s back at it again, taking his unapologetic feminism to new heights in a recent interview with Evening Standard magazine. According to Gosling, women are, literally, “better than men.”

“I think women are better than men,” Gosling told the magazine. Why? “They are stronger, more evolved.”

I don’t doubt that the actor will soon enough take heat from the obnoxious “I support gender equality but I’m not a feminist” crowd, so to clarify things: Yes, as I’m sure Gosling is well aware, feminism is about men and women being equal. But let’s face it, women deal with some pretty difficult shit in their day-to-day grinds that men will never have to. Examples: pay discrimination, less societal respect, street harassment, higher chances of sexual assault and being blamed for sexual assault, slut-shaming, taxes on “luxury goods” like tampons and toiletries that men don’t have to pay, tiny pockets, being hyper-sexualized and objectified, etc., etc., etc.

This requires them to have strength men arguably lack, and breeds in them empathy or a “more evolved” nature than the average man. And let’s be real here: I don’t think it makes me a misandrist to point out that if men were to magically disappear from the face of the planet, mass shootings, rape, street harassment, and many platforms promoting inequality would almost disappear.

So, my takeaway from Gosling’s latest insights on the female sex is that he’s merely acknowledging how the vastly different experiences of men and women shape who they are as human beings, and I can’t say I disagree.

Further, Gosling added: “You can tell especially when you have daughters, and you see their early stages — they are just leaps and bounds beyond boys immediately.” To this, I say, thank God. You’re unlikely to go a day without hearing someone or something be compared to a little girl with literally the worst connotations, as if little girls are actual demon spawn. So, I have an infinite amount of respect for Gosling for his salute to girls in “their early stages.”

CREDIT: Ian Gavan/Getty Images

At any rate, Gosling dropped another truth bomb in the interview that I doubt many people will hear about, what with his noise-canceling declaration that “women are better than men.” Asked about the enormous crush the female sex collectively has on him, and how he’s arguably objectified by the same crowd of people who want society to stop objectifying them, Gosling responded:

“It’s our time as men to be on the receiving end of the stick. I grew up with women so I’ve always been aware of it. When my mother and I walked to the grocery store, men would circle the block in cars. It was very, very scary, especially as a young boy. Very predatory — a hunt.”

As Game of Thrones’ Kit Harrington recently pointed out, attractive men in Hollywood face objectification (ogling at topless pictures of Channing Tatum, or Kit Harrington, or Ryan Gosling — we’re all guilty of it). But of course, it’s worth noting that while men who strip down are often celebrated, women who do same face no shortage of slut-shaming.

At any rate, Gosling makes the good point that the “unwanted fuss” made by “women and gay men,” which the Evening Standard asked him about, is pretty different from the “unwanted fuss” men make toward women, which, in many terrifying cases, can be street harassment or stalking.

So, there you have it. Another day, another shit ton of material for the Feminist Ryan Gosling Project to work with.