By: AFP | Athens |

Updated: June 3, 2016 8:14 pm

The Libyan navy said meanwhile it had found the bodies of at least 104 migrants on the shore in the western Libyan town of Zwara, warning that the toll could rise. (Source: AP/File)

The bodies of more than 100 migrants have washed up on a Libyan beach as a new migrant boat tragedy unfolded in the Mediterranean south of Greece on Friday.

Desperate rescue efforts were under way off the Greek island of Crete where at least 340 people were saved after a vessel believed to have left Africa with hundreds of migrants on board capsized.

The Libyan navy said meanwhile it had found the bodies of at least 104 migrants on the shore in the western Libyan town of Zwara, warning that the toll could rise.

Share This Article

“The number of bodies retrieved last evening was 104 but the toll is expected to rise since an average boat carries 115-125 passengers,” said Libyan navy spokesman Colonel Ayoub Qassem.

The names and nationalities of the drowned migrants, whose bodies were found on Thursday, were not yet known.

In Greece, efforts were under way to find hundreds believed missing after a migrant boat capsized off the island of Crete.

Greece’s coastguard has already recovered four bodies.

Coastguard spokesman Nikos Lagadianos said at least 340 people had been rescued, and the International Organization for Migration (IOM) said the vessel “is believed to have left Africa with at least 700 migrants on board”.

Among the survivors, over 240 are on route to Italy, 75 to Egypt, 16 to Turkey and seven to Malta, the coastguard said.

The Friday sinking marked the second migrant vessel found in that area of the southern Aegean Sea since last week, indicating that people smugglers may be forging a new route to avoid NATO ships.

A Greek coastguard spokeswoman said a major rescue operation was underway, including four ships that were passing through the area, in clear but windy conditions about 75 nautical miles south of Crete.

“The number of people in distress could be counted in the hundreds,” she said.

It was not immediately clear where exactly the boat had left from or where it was headed, or the nationalities of those on board.

The coastguard spokeswoman said a passing ship spotted the sinking vessel off Crete.

The coastguard rushed two patrol boats, a plane and a helicopter to the scene. About half of the 25-metre-long boat was completely underwater, the spokeswoman said.

The deaths are the first in Greek waters since April, as a controversial March deal between the EU and Turkey designed to halt the flow of migrants using the popular Aegean route has led to a sharp drop in arrivals.

Nevertheless, some 204,000 migrants and refugees have crossed the Mediterranean to Europe since January, the United Nations refugee agency said on Tuesday.

More than 2,500 people have died trying to make the perilous journey this year – the vast majority of them on crossings between Libya and Italy – as Europe battles its worst migration crisis since World War II.