Aishwarya Rai’s recent fashion statement has evoked mixed reactions from experts

Aishwarya Rai’s much talked about purple lips at Cannes have been in the news for the right and wrong reasons. The actress, who stunned fashionistas with the bold colour, should have chosen the right variant of purple which is suitable for her skin. Even though the actress has got support from certain quarters including father-in-law Amitabh Bachchan, the fact remains that she received a lot of flak from fashion experts for choosing a purple shade which goes well with European skin.According to Ishika Taneja, young beauty expert who recently entered the Guinness Book of World Records for applying the fastest make up on 60 models in Delhi, the right variant of purple would have done magic on Aishwarya’s face.“The actress must be complimented for choosing the next colour of the season (monsoon). The only thing wrong with this look is the lip-colour which is super-prominent and in fact, not at all suiting her well. She should have gone for a warmer colour choice that could have gone with her skin tone too. Instead of plain purple – hues like plum, magenta, wine, eggplant, grapes, violet or aubergine would have done more justice to her look. Or else she could have used deep lavender. Right undertone is important and pastel purple with yellow undertone to the skin really works.” The lipstick was not matching the colour of her skin. “This kind of lipstick works well best on those who have pink complexion like the Westerners,” she adds.Disagreeing with her views, Shreya Chadha, hair expert, says fashion lovers keenly watch Aishwarya Rai’s every dress and make up whenever she attends the world famous film festival. Her choice of wardrobe and cosmetics invariably become a trend. After the actress sporting purple lipstick hit newspapers and television channels, Shreya has been inundated with clients who want purple lips like the green-eyed actress. “It was a practical and not one-off thing. Even brands like L’Oreal and Urban D have come out with new range of ‘purple lipsticks’.”Advertisement: Replay AdAds by ZINCPurple lips were also seen on the ramp during the French Fashion Week. Explaining the cycle of fashion, Ishika says: “What happens at the London Fashion and the Paris Fashion Week eventually decides what comes here. So the trend starts from the West and then travels to Bollywood which is used by the masses. Like in hair styles there was straight, light maddy and now it is again straight.”On how the interpretation is done, she says: “As make up artists we use colours according to Indian skin, hair, and culture. Tinted lips are now the in-thing. Ombre, in which two colours are mixed has become a trend. It is an amalgamation of light and dark. Then muted colours would come in a year or two.”On the pattern of selecting colours, Shalini James, a designer known for interpreting local ideas into her garments, says: “It is partly based on trends and on concept of the collection. It is not a tangible process; very difficult to say in exact terms. A combination of factors, which vary from time to time, works. There is no formula of doing it. It is not a science. A colour could become a hit or miss the target consumer. Purple colour need not necessarily work as a colour in cosmetics in the long run.”Noting that traditional colours are timeless, Shalini says local factors also play in a designer’s mind while selecting colours. “A designer has to be aware of the international trends as well as domestic factors. It is his/her discretion whether to accept or reject. Domestic factors play an immense role for Indian designers. I am based in Kerala, if I have to make a monsoon collection then I have to take into account local conditions and not what is happening abroad.”