Ties, mugs and slipper gifts are all well and good, but what dad really wants is the gift of booze. Something that he can sup while lounging in the garden, watching you mow his lawn. Or as a stimulus for a nice long nap in front of the telly.

Here’s our list of top boozy gifts to bring colour to his cheeks and tears to his eyes (in the nicest possible way). 

1. Snaffling Pig Gifting Jar: £30, Not On The High Street 

The best bits of a pub, stuffed inside a box. This pork-tastic gift set contains four tasty ales from Hogs Back brewery and a 1.3 litre jar crammed with the finest pork scratchings you’ll ever taste. They’re double fried for extra crispiness, and are so moreish we had to hide ours out of trotters’ reach to stop us from pigging the entire jar. The scratchings come in a variety of flavours, but watch out for the fierce chilli burn of the ‘Pig of Doom’ – it’ll blow your old man’s slippers off.

Buy now 

1. Kwak Gift Pack: £25, Beerhawk

If your dear old dad is a Belgian beer buff, he’ll turn cartwheels when he unwraps this. Kwak is right up there among the finest Belgian boozes – it’s a sweet, strong, full-bodied amber ale, tasting of ripe fruits, figs and spices. This bumper pack of Kwak contains four 33cl bottles and comes complete with a bonkers Kwak serving glass for added comedy value.

Buy now

 

3. Purity UBU mini-cask, 5 litres: £17.90, Bottle Shack

If Pops likes a pint or two, why not go the extra mile and buy him a cask’s worth? Made at Purity’s farm-based brewery in rural Warwickshire, UBU is one of their best sellers. It’s a sessionable amber ale with hints of caramel and fruits – just the ticket for summertime slurping. He won't be able to wet his whistle straightaway though; this is a live beer so the cask will need venting and settling two days before drinking. Tell him it's well worth the wait.Buy now

4. Suntory Hakushu Distiller’s Reserve 70cl: £45.45, The Whisky Exchange

Spirit sipping dads will delight in dampening their whiskers with this stunning drop of booze. Developed in Japan, at Suntory’s mountain forest distillery, Hakushu is one of their finest. It’s a gently smoked single malt with zingy citrus notes and whiffs of peppermint and pine. Expensive, but he's worth it, right?

Buy now

 

5. Jack Daniels Hip Flask Gift Set: £9.99, Very

Outdoor-dwelling action dads will be pleased to receive one of these, a gift

guaranteed to bring warm cheer to the dampest alfresco activities. This bargain, boozy treat contains a miniature of sour mash Jack and a stainless steel, leather clad hip flask to stow it in. The perfect accompaniment for sporting events, festivals and fraught family camping trips.

Buy now

http://www.very.co.uk/jack-daniels-miniature-whiskey-and-hip-flask-gift-set/1295186773.prd

6. West Country Cider Gift Set: £25, Bristol Cider Shop

Be the apple of dad’s eye and deal him in with a bumper hamper for the discerning cider drinker. It’s packed with booze from big-hitting names from the Somerset cider making scene, and comes complete with a jar of cider mustard to slather over his ham sandwiches and a pot of cider marmalade to grace his toast.Buy now

7. Hotel Chocolat Chocolate & Port Collection: £25, Hotel Chocolat 

For dads with a sweet tooth, Hotel Chocolat has paired booze with delicious cocoa-rich confection. 50ml bottles of Tawny Port and Ruby Port nestle alongside bars of St Lucia dark chocolate, milk chocolate puddles and four dark port truffles – more than enough for dad to share with his generous family.Buy now

8. Louis Jadot Mâcon Rouge, Boxed, 75cl: John Lewis, £20

A bottle of posh wine is always a winner and looks even more impressive when presented in a wooden box (besides making it easier to wrap). This red from Burgundy is light and fruity and a great choice to serve with a hearty Father’s Day meal or a post lunch nibble of cheese.Buy now

9. Hendrick’s Hot House Gin Gift Set: £19.99, Selfridges

Cool dads will love this quirky, cucumber-themed gift set from Hendricks. This jolly pack of G&T related goodies contains two gin miniatures, a plant pot, a cucumber baller and a pack of cucumber seeds to grow for fancy garnish. Hendrick’s gin is a floral, easy-sipping number, so we suspect the gin will be quaffed long before his seeds bear fruit.  Buy now

10. Mocambo 10 Year Old Mexican Rum Buccaneer Pistol, 20cl: £23.48, Masters of Malt

Give old Pops a right rum treat. He’ll hoist the mainsail when he lays his eyes on this – a glass buccaneer pistol filled with oak aged, smooth Mexican rum. This butterscotch booze – packed with vanilla and amaretto flavours – will dance the hornpipe on his tongue and play the swanee whistle on his tonsils.  Buy now

Verdict

If you want to push the boat out, grab a bottle of Hakushu for your dear old pa, but our money goes on the cracking stuffed gift set from The Snaffling Pig – dad will go hog wild for it (providing he’s not a vegetarian).

More about:

Food and Drink

Father's Day