It’s Friday and there’s lots to talk about. There’s the fallout from David Cameron’s live TV appearance last night, and Nigel Farage has proclaimed that he’s going to lead a “flotilla of boats up the Thames” to call for Brexit on behalf of the fishing industry. Meanwhile the Dalai Lama has distanced himself from a pro-Brexit poster, and we imagine what a possible post-Brexit Boris Johnson cabinet might look like.

Europeans working in the UK talk about their contributions to British society and their worries about the prospect of Brexit

You can read about the conversations here and click on the links at the end of each point to get involved, or head over to our EU referendum live blog to follow the news and discussion as it happens.

Earlier on Friday our Politics live blog focused on the fallout from Cameron’s appearance on Sky last night, described by one headline-stealing audience member and student, Soraya Bouazzaoui, as “waffling and scaremongering”.

Cameron accused of waffling by English Literature student – video

It’s fair to say your views echoed Bouazzaoui’s sentiments. Although she didn’t appear to suggest her own voting intentions, she was concerned at how the current remain campaign message was being ignored by friends who want to leave the EU.

Some were more impressed with the prime minister, or at least thought his performance solidified the “status quo” vote.

David Cameron speaks after attending the Sky News interview, which was followed by an audience Q and A session. Photograph: Pool/Getty Images

The Cameron soundbite most picked up on was his describing a potential Brexit as “economic self harm”.

Cameron: leaving the EU would be ‘self inflicted wound’ on UK – video

Not all of you agreed economy was what would persuade them to vote in the first place.

Moving on now, and looking forward to Michael Gove’s turn on Sky on Friday night ...

Join the debate here – you can also read more of your comments on Thursday night’s live blog: David Cameron grilled on Sky News – as it happened.

Promising a “big, visual and dramatic” event organised by Scottish skippers, who set up the pro-Brexit Fishing for Leave Campaign several weeks ago, Nigel Farage spoke about the fishing industry on London radio station LBC on Friday morning.

The group argues that the fishing industry would be better off if the UK left the EU but had the same status as Iceland, Norway and the Faroe Islands during fisheries quota talks. It looks like in support, Farage will be up early to don his lifejacket at Southend-on-Sea in time to reach Westminster for the final PMQs before the referendum on 23 June.

Nigel Farage took to the seas with Joey Essex at Grimsby docks last month. Photograph: Sean Smith for the Guardian

As ever many of you were sceptical about Farage’s position, and keen to remind him of his responsibilities in the European parliament.

Of course there was some support for the campaign – even if not the man himself, who was accused of a cynical exploitation of his status in the media.

Nigel Farage laps up the cameras after giving a speech on immigration at a campaign event in London today. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PA

Join the debate here.

So while Michael Gove gets ready to face the cameras, he might happen upon some futurology he quite likes when browsing his Guardian app ...

Political correspondent Rowena Mason has imagined a future where Boris Johnson leads the UK with Michael Gove as his deputy and suggests some of the other options for top jobs if, as predicted, Cameron was forced out in the result of a Leave vote.

Imagined prime minister and deputy inspect their pints on the campaign in Lancashire this week. Photograph: Stefan Rousseau/PA

Some of you were worried.

There was also a harking back to the days after Tony Blair left office and Gordon Brown took his place in Number 10, as you looked at the realities of our democracy.

Michael Gove, Boris Johnson and Priti Patel during a visit to Farmhouse Biscuits in Nelson, Lancashire this week. Photograph: Stefan Rousseau/PA

Join the debate here.

Back to the present-day PM. Did you agree with John Harris that we’re now witnessing the tragic decline of David Cameron?

Finally, our feature showcasing Europeans living in the UK garnered possibly the most poignant comment of the day:

We’ll be back on Monday with another roundup of what you’re talking about in the comment sections on the EU referendum.

Many of you have asked to see more EU referendum facts, so it’s worth taking a look at this piece on what happens next and why the same statistics can be used to suit both sides of the debate. You can help inform what we report on by filling in the form below.

Get a regular rundown of the debates, the polls and all the latest from the campaign trail ahead of the UK’s referendum on EU membership