Najib said the people of Sabah have achieved progress in terms of self-identity since Malaysia achieved its independence. — Reuters picKUALA LUMPUR, June 3 ― The Sabah people are 'real fighters' and are prepared to defend the state against intrusion by any quarters, said Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak.

He said the people of Sabah have achieved progress in terms of self-identity since Malaysia achieved its independence and on this factor they, regardless of race and ethnic origin are prepared to defend their state against any intrusion.

Najib said this in reference to the lyrics of a song performed by Sabah-born artiste, Jimmy Palikat, at the 'Tadau Kaamatan 2016' Malaysia Open House today. 

The event, organised by the Tourism and Cultural Ministry and the Sabah government, is held at the Malaysian Tourism Centre (MaTic) in Jalan Ampang here.

"The song is very popular nationwide, but I don't quite agree with the lyrics because it tells about a person who gives up easily. Anyway, it is just a song. The Sabah people are actually real fighters," he said in his speech when opening the event.

Also present were Tourism and Culture Minister Datuk Seri Mohamed Nazri Abdul Aziz, Sabah Deputy Chief Minister Tan Sri Joseph Pairin Kitingan and Sabah Tourism, Culture and Environment Minister Datuk Seri Panglima Masidi Manjun.  

On Sabah's tourism sector, Najib said it had the potential to develop further with the implementation of various big projects by the government in the state. 

"Among the government projects that will benefit Sabah are the construction of the Sabah International Convention Centre which is scheduled to be ready in 2018 and the Pan Borneo Expressway," he added.

The Pan Borneo Expressway, he said, would link all the areas in Sabah, like Kota Kinabalu, Kudat and Tawau, and make travelling easier.

Najib said he had been informed by Masidi that the Kota Kinabalu International Airport received 46 flights from China in a week and the number did not include chartered flights.

On the Malaysia Open House, the prime minister said Malaysians should respect the culture of the local community in the respective states in the country to ensure continuous peace and prosperity.

"I thank Tourism and Culture Minister Datuk Seri Mohamed Nazri Abdul Aziz for organising this 'Tadau Keaamatan' celebration which is held for the first time in Kuala Lumpur.

"The response from the public is very good and I hope the ministry will organise more cultural events like this in the future," he added.

Meanwhile, Sabah Chief Minister Datuk Seri Musa Aman said the event held today reflected the recognition given by the prime minister and the federal government to Sabah's culture.

"Besides recognising this celebration as a national level celebration, the federal government, especially the Tourism and Culture Ministry, always cooperates and works with the state government in efforts to further promote the uniqueness and specialty of Sabah's cultural heritage and tradition," he said in the text of his speech which was read by Joseph Pairin.

The Sabah government and its people will continue to given their support and commitment to development efforts by the federal government, he added. ― Bernama