At least four migrants drowned and dozens of others were feared dead after a boat carrying hundreds of immigrants capsized off the coast of the Greek island of Crete on Friday in the latest tragedy in the Mediterranean Sea.

In a separate incident the Italian Red Cross said 117 migrants had died when their dinghy sank near Zuara off the coast of Libya. It was unclear when they had perished but their deaths came after one of the worst weeks ever for migrant fatalities.  

The latest news came as the Organization for International Migration released figures saying 205,509 immigrants had arrived in Europe by sea this year and 2,443 were dead or missing.

The Greek Coast Guard said Thursday 342 migrants had been rescued and four dead bodies had been recovered from the 82-foot long fishing boat which is believed to have left Egypt en route to Italy.

The vessel had called for urgent assistance after getting into difficulty late Thursday and began to sink in international waters about 75 nautical miles south of Kalo Limeni in Crete.

The alarm was initially picked up by the Italian Coast Guard late Thursday and then reported to the Greek authorities.

“The information we have on the number of people on board the vessel is still unclear – we’ve heard there were 400 or 500 people on board but we cannot confirm that number,” Coast Guard spokesman Nikos Lagadianos said.

“There is a huge rescue effort underway.”

Four vessels rushed to assist the migrants with support from planes and helicopters. The boat is believed to have been heading for Italy. Some 220 migrants have reached Crete in the last few days.

Meanwhile the Italian Red Cross says it has recovered 117 bodies including 70 women and five children, from beaches in western Libya, official Mohamed Misrati told ANSA. He said all were of African origin.

“The bodies began to show up at Zuara, in western Libya near the Tunisian border after 9 a.m Thursday,” Misrati said by telephone.  “The recovery of the bodies continued until 11 pm and the Red Cross resumed operations this morning.”

It is unclear when or precisely how they died but the bodies were found after the Coast Guard rescued more than 450 people in the same area off the Libyan coast last week.