Coldplay kick off the UK leg of their A Head Full Of Dreams tour at Manchester's Etihad Stadium this weekend. Anticipation is already running high on the back of their European shows and homecoming performance at BBC Radio One's Big Weekend at Christ Martin's old stomping ground of Exeter. And tomorrow, thousands of fans will be descending on Manchester for the first of two huge open-air shows taking place this Saturday June 4 and Sunday June 5. If you're one of them, we've rounded up everything you could possibly need to know in one place to help you make it the best gig ever. From the support acts opening for Chris Martin and co to the expected stage times and set list, we've got it all covered. Read more:

Can I still buy tickets for Coldplay at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester? First things first then, you'll need to find your way there:  How do I get to the Etihad Stadium?  The Etihad is in East Manchester - not too far from the city centre but far enough that you probably won’t want to walk it. If you do, there is a safe, well lit and signposted walking route available from Manchester Piccadilly Station. Follow the ‘City Link’ signs. It takes around 25 minutes to walk to the stadium from the city centre.

Otherwise, there's a dedicated tram stop, Etihad Campus, right next to the stadium. Metrolink services run from the city centre to Etihad Campus and on towards Ashton. The journey time from Piccadilly is less than 10 minutes. Tickets must be bought before travel, with an off peak return from the city centre priced at £3 for adults, £1.40 for children. Check your journey details before travel at on the Metrolink website or follow @MCRMetrolink on Twitter. There are also a number of buses available from all directions. Visit the Transport for Greater Manchester website for more information. Now that you've got your journey mapped out, you might well be wondering:  Where can I go for a drink before the gig?  The Etihad has a bar inside the stadium, although you'll need to take cash as at some big gigs they don’t take card payments. There is a cash machine at the ground but the queues will be long so make sure you get money in the city centre. Our tip for a pre-gig drink would be the Northern Quarter, at the Tariff Street/Stevenson Square end, nearest to Piccadilly so you're not too far from the tram stop. There are some brilliant bars in that area serving a range of craft ales, wines and spirits as well as really great grub. Pen and Pencil (57 Hilton St, Manchester, M1 2EJ) is hosting pre-show parties both days with DJ sets from Inspiral Carpets star Clint Boon and Capital FM's Wingman.

Pen and Pencil

Here are some of our other top picks in and around the area: Rudy’s Neapolitan Pizza - Affordable, award-winning pizza with a good selection of craft beers and Italian wines. Check out our review here (9 Cotton Street, Manchester, M4 5BF) Cottonopolis - Stunning Japanese inspired menu and one of their cocktails has a glowing disco ball in it (16 Newton Street, Manchester, M1 2AE) Tariff and Dale - Cool and contemporary bar and restaurant serving up sourdough pizza and sausage rolls (2 Tariff Street, Manchester, M1 2FN) Port Street Beer House - A beer geek’s dream - one of the best beer selections in Manchester (39-41 Port Street, Manchester, M1 2EQ) Common - Beers, gin and cake. What more could you want? (39 Edge Street, Manchester, M4 1HW) Old school boozers worth seeking out include Mother Macs , The Crown And Anchor and The Millstone . Read more:

The Manchester Northern Quarter bar crawl - craft ale and beer bars Don't get too carried away and lose track of time though. You don't want to miss the support acts. Speaking of which...  Who are the support acts?   Lianne La Havas

Joel Goodman

The London born folk and soul singer released her second album, Blood, last year - three years after debut LP Is Your Love Big Enough? The new album was nomination for a Grammy in 2015, and she was also nominated for best female act and best R&B/soul act at last year's MOBO Awards. La Havas was discovered on MySpace in 2008 and has also sung backing vocals for Paloma Faith. La Havas has been in Manchester before - most notably when she supported Alicia Keys at her 'MTV Crashes' gig at Manchester Cathedral in 2012 and last year's Summer In The City at Castlefield Bowl.  Alessia Cara

This 19-year-old Canadian singer songwriter released her debut album, Know It All, last year after being spotted on YouTube, performing acoustic covers from the age of 13. She won Breakthrough Artist of the Year at the 2016 Juno Awards and came second in the BBC's Sound of 2016 - and her fanbase is growing thanks to recent US TV appearances on Jimmy Fallon and Ellen Degeneres' shows. Cara has drawn heavy comparisons with Norah Jones.  What are the stage times?  Stage times have yet to be officially confirmed but based on their last show, in Germany, here's a rough idea of the set-up. Don't set your watch by it though and keep an eye on the band's Twitter feed @Coldplay for an official announcement. Doors open: 5pm Alessia Cara: 7pm Lianne La Havas: 7.45pm Coldplay: 9pm  What will Coldplay's setlist be?  Here's what we predict, based on the band's European shows so far. You might also get to hear a couple of covers - in Nice, they covered David Bowie's Heroes in tribute to the late music icon. A Head Full of Dreams Yellow Every Teardrop is a Waterfall The Scientist Birds Paradise Everglow Magic Army of One Clocks Midnight Charlie Brown Hymn for the Weekend Fix You Heroes Viva la Vida Adventure of a Lifetime Kaleidoscope Ink Us Against the World Amazing Day A Sky Full Of Stars Up & Up The band are also known for their love of playing requests - and they want to hear yours. Here's how you can get them to play your favourite song .