Rail travel is forever going up in price - but, this June, we've found one way to save you a few pounds on your next journey, when you book through trains firm thetrainline.com. If you've a trip on the horizon, or are planning ahead to half term , cashback website Quidco is offering new members £10 money-back on train tickets purchased before midnight 10 June 2016. The great news is there's NO minimum spend, and you can travel whenever you like, (just make sure you book before the deal ends). To redeem the offer, sign up to Quidco (it's free to join), follow the instructions to thetrainline.com and order your ticket to the value of £10 or more. A total of £10 cashback will then track in your Quidco account within seven working days, and will become ‘payable’ to transfer into your bank account approximately 14 days after the order date. For more ways to save on rail and coach travel this year, see our cheap train tickets page. Read more: 11 ways to save money on rail travel in the UK  Trainline.com deals right now

Getty

£6 one-way : London Euston (EUS) to Birmingham New Street (BHM) £20 one-way : Manchester Piccadilly (MAN) to London Euston (EUS) £14.60 one-way : Leeds (LDS) to London Kings Cross (KGX)   How much does thetrainline.com charge in delivery? You can collect your tickets from your local station two-hours after purchase for free . Remember to take your payment card and booking reference with you. For more information see which stations can I collect my tickets from . Mobile tickets are free via the app on iPhone, Android, Blackberry and Nokia devices. You can also print your own tickets for free. First Class delivery is £1 on tickets ordered before 3pm will be dispatched the same day. Next Day Delivery is £7.50. Read more: 10 travel deals to save you money on a family getaway

Get on the right mailing lists for cheap tickets

For the best deals, and sales as they're announced, it's worth adding your email address to the relevant websites' mailing list. See our pick of the best rail providers below: