The All Progressive Congress, APC, Kaduna State has reiterated that it cannot be factionalized and would not tolerate indiscipline among its party members in the state.

Addressing newsmen in Kaduna on Friday, the state Publicity Secretary of the party, Alhaji Salisu Tanko Wusono said, “We have given people enough time to adjust to the reality that they are not in a position to hold the party or the process of change to ransom just because of their personal interests.

“In Kaduna State, Malam Nasiru Ahmed El-Rufai is making strides that are obvious even to the malicious. We pray Allah to strengthen our leaders, preserve their health and enhance them in the service of the people.

“APC in Kaduna State is very proud of the successes recorded by Malam El-Rufai and his government. How can we not be pleased with a man who is using the APC manifesto as his guide in government? The achievements in the education sector are happening because the APC manifesto recognises education as a proprity and our APC governor is implementing that manifesto faithfully.

“The school feeding programme is improving the nutrition of our 1.5 million primary school pupils who are fed every school day. This programme which aims to provide assist in the physical and mental development of our children is also creating jobs for the women are working as vendors and cooks.

“The Kaduna APC welcomes the steps taken to recruit more teachers and to support current teachers to upgrade their skills. We register with utmost delight our appreciation to Malam Nasiru El-Rufai for the decision to allow teachers to reach Grade level 17 without having to abandon the noble professoon of teaching.

“The APC government has energised the Kaduna economy with contracts for school renovations, provision of boreholes, supply of furniture and the sewing of free uniforms for secondary school students. We are seeing township roads, solar street lights and work to dualise some roads. The prudent displayed in achieving saving of N1.1 billipn on the Kawo road project is especially commendable.

“The APC also notes and appreciates the impressive steps taken to move Zaria water project forward. We welcome the rehabilitation of waterworks across the state, and the revival of irrigation projects. We salute Malam El-Rufai for the fertilizer feat, and we look forward to further improvements to the agricultural sector.

“The APC Kaduna wishes to commend the government for delivering on its promise of free healthcare for infants and pregnant women. We welcome the prizes and awards won by the health care workers in Kaduna. We are looking forward to the commissioning of the 255 modernised Primary Health Centres, one in each ward of our state.

“Our party is very happy to note the job creation efforts and the initiatives to foster employment paths for our youths. We welcome the injection of 2,503 young people into KASTELEA, and we congratulate the government for KADSTEP, the Kaduna Start-up entrepreneurship programme, which is providing educated youth a chance for business training and access to funds.”

It would be recalled that another group of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Kaduna State under the auspices of APC AKIDA emerged with Senator Shehu Sani, Isah Ashiru, Dr Hakeem Baba Ahmed, among others as advisory council members.

The state executive committee of the APC AKIDA has Tom Mataimaki Maiyasje as convener and Alhaji Ibrahim Yaro as deputy convener and others.

Addreessing newsmen in Kaduna on Thursday, MrTom Maiyashe said, “We exist because our party structures do not exist or function in a manner prescribed by our party constitution or in the interest of our members and one of our key goals is to help to re-establish party structures at all levels.

“We exist because our party has been deliberately hijacked and incapacitated, and our members are deprived of a major asset to exercise their rights to be served by a party which put this government in power.”