Climate change is a much-discussed global topic and has received increased focus after the Paris Agreement scaling up climate action and adaptation activities. COP 21 has brought a new dimension of accommodating different issues in which a significant role has to be played by the private sector where developing and small countries have also obliged themselves to undertake responsibilities.

COP 21 is most remarkable as it brings to us the  31-page Paris agreement containing 140 decisions and 29 Articles. There are differences of opinion and political clouts throughout the whole negotiation period, but finally an agreement was reached, full implementation of which will take a year. So far about 200 countries signed the agreement and some of them have already ratified. A significant number of countries including Bangladesh is in the process of ratification.The 22nd session of the COP 22 to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) is scheduled to take place on November 7-18, 2016. During COP 22, parties will, inter alia, begin preparations for entry into force of the Paris Agreement. Now the discussion is going on to have COP 22 as a follow-up of the Paris Agreement signed in December 2015 which is going to be held in Marrakesh, Morocco.It is of course true that achieving an agreement in Paris was no small feat; everyone seems to agree on this that it was difficult to come to an agreement, and what led to an agreement being reached has got a different dimension in which political agenda played a big role.  The agreement is non-binding, but everyone is bound to save the planet. Undeveloped or poorer developing countries are also signatories because it promised them money and the main aim was saving the planet or universe.  Financial commitment was almost absent but the countries felt there was nothing to be lost in signing it.   The agreement, seen as a mark of positive wisdom and containing a long wish list, needs extensive follow-up and stock taking. The developing countries have obligated themselves by agreeing on Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs). For Bangladesh, it is 5 per cent unconditional by 2030 (Transport, Industry and Energy) and 15 per cent conditional. Bangladesh is one of the highly climate change vulnerable countries and has a natural dependency on agriculture, the main source of employment and it has little to contribute to the global GHG emission reduction.Analysts say although the per capita annual emission in Bangladesh is lower than that of developed countries, it has contributed for INDC and if financial and technological support is available from the international community, the reduction can be up to 15 per cent. Bangladesh has created an example in having these obligations but for showing scientific proof of emission and taking care of the issues of sustainability, it would definitely need support.  The national strategy of Bangladesh in the context of INDC has highlighted the importance of adaptation and indicated certain key aspects of its adaptation are needed along with financial implications. Appropriate technology development and deployment are critical in this context. By and large, the state of technology regime remains well below the required levels.  Political clout behind the Agreement was present. Big and powerful countries were always on the frontline to advocate their issues. The deal was crafted very intelligently- excluding emission reduction targets and finance in the legally binding part.  The deal was a bit disappointment for low- lying small islands which need to bear the fallout of climate change in terms of land loss and migration.As of May 20, 2016, there were 177 signatories to the Paris Agreement. Of these, 17 countries  also deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval accounting in total for 0.04 per cent of the total global greenhouse gas emissions. These are some of the achievements  in terms of legal obligation.  Fifty five parties to the convention account for 55 per cent of the total green house gas emission. Global average temperature limit to well below 2 degree Celsius and pursuance of 1.5 degree are  important.Special priority for LDCs, financing and transparency is also very important for the countries that signed the agreement pledging to 'reach global peaking of greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible without any specific date.  Adaptation, strengthening scientific knowledge on climate change, research and systematic observation would be difficult for LDCs  without strong commitment. Adaptation and loss and damage have been left in the dark and no legal actions can be taken.Although the Agreement for the first time recognises the concept of 'loss and damage', it makes it clear that developed countries will not accept liability for climate compensation.  There is no mention of non-economic losses although technology transfer is one of the crucial areas for LDCs. Capacity building would require a country- driven approach.Climate-induced displacement was not included in the agreement. LDCs' climate finance was not ensured, external finance mechanism was  stringent and ensuring climate justice was left out.  Specific measures for parties to de-carbonise their economies are not clear. Finally, how the poor countries will survive remains a big question.Reach the target of 1.5 degrees is not possible through national commitments; many countries and their people need to survive the assaults of a changing climate. Governments, the international community and others need to encourage producers and consumers to drastically contribute  to lower emissions. Strong follow-up actions are needed. In the new trade and investment policies, these issues need to be integrated and emphasised. The Bangladesh Climate Change Adaptation Action Plan -2009 would need to be revised in tune with COP 21 agreement.The Bangladesh government has already formed three important committees on Adaptation, INDC and Capacity Building. More private sector representatives should be included in these committees.  The country is in the process of ratification and consultation with the private sector consultation is important.The private sector is connected mostly with mitigation (energy efficiency and solar panel), rather than adaptation. In case of emission reduction, mass awareness would need to be created to reduce wastages. If an individual wastage reduction is 0 .01 per cent how much we can reduce nationally need to be calculated. The Ministry of Environment and Forests should have more concerns in this regard. Institutionalisation of public-private collaboration and conceptualisation of private sector involvement are very important.The writer is CEO, BUILD.ceo_build@outlook.com