KUALA LUMPUR, June 3 — Malaysians should devote their full loyalty, honesty and sincerity to the Yang di-Pertuan Agong as the Head of State, in line with the practice of parliamentary democracy, and constitutional monarchy in the country.

National Mosque Grand Imam Tan Sri Syaikh Ismail Muhammad said loyalty was a noble value, and could be used as a base to foster love for the nation among the people.

“Undivided loyalty to the Agong and country, is the key to unite Malaysians of various races,” he said when delivering a special sermon during the Friday prayers at Masjid Wilayah here, today.

The sermon entitled “Islamic and National Sovereignty Under the Rule of His Majesty the Yang di-Pertuan Agong” was presented in conjunction with the official birthday of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, Tuanku Abdul Halim Mu’adzam Shah, tomorrow.

Tuanku Abdul Halim also attended the Friday prayers at the mosque. He was accompanied by Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department Datuk Seri Jamil Khir Baharom and his deputy, Datuk Dr Asyraf Wajdi Dusuki.

Ismail said that Islam required people to obey and respect the ruler, as it was one of the principles of the Ahlus Sunnah wal Jama’ah.

In addition, he said, Loyalty to the Ruler and Country was the second principle of the Rukun Negara, a national ideology which should be observed by all Malaysians.

This principle emphasises the importance of loyalty to the ruler and the nation, he said, while noting that negative attitudes could sway loyalty, undermining the governance of the country, and causing disunity.

“Nevertheless, we are grateful to Allah for keeping His Majesty and the country away from any threats. This situation is contributed by the wisdom, decisiveness, fairness, and capability of His Majesty in facing the challenges effectively.

“His Majesty is a head of state who has a high personality in exercising his jurisdiction to protect the country and sanctity of Islam,” he said adding that solid support from the line of leaders and advisers of the country who govern with excellence, strengthened the position of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong. — Bernama