A black cab pulls up, I duck inside and take a seat. In front of me is a blackjack table full of chips, to my right is former England cricketer Phil Tufnell who hands me a bottle of lager out of a fridge.

This is a fun dream, but surely I’ll wake up in a second with an unwelcome hangover and erection. Nope. This is reality, surreal but amazing reality.

I had just stepped into the world’s smallest travelling casino, hosted in the back of a regular Hackney carriage.

There might not be room for a roulette wheel, slot machine or vast Las Vegas-style water feature, but the dealer sat behind the blackjack table confirmed it was very much worthy of its title.

Throw into the mix a screen hooked up to Sky Sports and a handy-sized beer fridge under the table and I had found myself a smashing little venue for the afternoon.

What many don’t realise about taxis in London is that they are actually mobile, and this is the big plus about hosting the planet’s smallest gambling hall in a cab. Soon enough we were on the move.

What followed was a thoroughly pleasant half hour; drinking in some landmarks, absorbing Tuffers’ cheeky-chappy banter, swallowing some losses on the blackjack and supping some German lager.

For a fan of gambling, alcohol and English cricket in the ‘90s, this was a slice of nirvana.

Although it seemed it, the experience wasn’t tailored for me by a Noel Edmonds TV programme or something similar; it all came about thanks to Grosvenor Casinos who came up with the idea of the ‘World’s Smallest Travelling Casino.’

It’s to celebrate an amazing summer of sport ahead; all of which you can enjoy at Grosvenor’s 55 venues around the country.

How to get a ride in the world's smallest casino...

The taxi is heading around the UK and you can get a lift in it FOR FREE!

After London, it heads north to Birmingham, Manchester, Leeds and ends up in Glasgow after a three-week tour. If you see it you can hail it down or tweet @grosvenorcasino with #playyourway asking to be picked up. Head to a Grosvenor Casino from there free of charge, or travel elsewhere for an optional donation to Carers Trust.

Unfortunately, Tuffers has not been strapped into the back seat for the whole three weeks and the taxi heads off without the Question Of Sport hero. This frees up more space in the back for you and your pals, though, so, you know, every cloud.

He might not be there, but ‘The Cat’ can have the last word on the matter: ‘We’ll have games, beers, and of course there’s the charitable element too – it’s just a wonderful opportunity for the whole country to get involved and unify over our love of sport.’

Yes it is Tuffers, yes it is.