There are many musical artists out there that would like to take North Carolina's controversial HB2, also known as the "bathroom bill," and flush it right down the toilet.

You can add twin sisters Tegan and Sara to that list.

Although many high-profile acts such as Pearl Jam, Bruce Springsteen, Maroon 5, Ringo Starr and Demi Lovato have opted to bypass the state over the controversial law (which bars transgendered citizens from using bathroom facilities that do not match the gender on their birth certificate), the red-hot Canadian pop duo has decided to play there instead this fall.

"Pulling our show would probably do very little other than punish our fans, who are very aware of what is happening," Tegan Quin says in a defiant voice. "There are a lot of LGBT people in our audience so we’d be penalizing people who are being punished already."

She adds: "A lot of those artists, especially the types of audiences they have, they probably don’t even know what’s going on, so they are making a very important statement. We are going to go there and s--- disturb."

Postmedia Network recently chatted with the pair about their recently released LP Love You to Death, their music-making process, and carefully meshing their current electro-pop hooks with their older singer-songwriter material in a live setting.

Did you have any extra pressure with the new record, given all the accolades your last disc Heartthrob received?

Tegan: I don’t think so. I think we’re always looking at starting a new chapter so it’s less like, ‘How will we follow that up?' and more like, ‘What do we want to do next?’ It’s still very much a creative process and I don’t think you can force creativity.

Sara: I agree with Tegan, but I also think that Heartthrob was a success because we set a bunch of goals and the record was received really well, but in a way we knew it was just a jumping off point for us.

Do you bring separate ideas to the table and work on them, or do you create everything together from scratch?

Sara: The process is pretty separate – it always has been. We create a pretty defined and solid blueprint before we enter the studio, and the collaboration happens when we get in there.

What can fans expect from the upcoming shows?

Sara:  It’s obvious to fans that we’ve changed and the sound has changed, but how do we still showcase them? We are just two people who write songs together, sing together and harmonize together. So how do we build a bridge between those two different identities? We did a few warm-up shows in L.A. and I’m excited by the response. I think we are coming really close to being able to bridge the pop production with something that is very reminiscent of our early days. Very stripped down, very singer-songwriter. So hopefully, the best of both worlds.

Twitter: @johnwillms

JWilliams@postmedia.com