A ISIS terror plot to murder tourists in the old town of Dusseldorf in Germany involved TEN suicide bombers .   Previously it was thought a terror cell of four Syrians - who made it to Germany disguised as refugees by coming through Balkan countries - were plotting a copycat Paris-style outrage in the city on the banks of the Rhine that is visited by tens of thousands of tourists a day.  But Spiegel magazine said authorities now had evidence of four suicide bombers who were to blow themselves up while SIX more accomplices sprayed gunfire on innocent people. Afterwards the plan was for the gunmen to then detonate their own suicide vests to send the death toll even higher.  Three Syrian terror suspects, aged 31, 27 and 25, have been on remand in police cells since Thursday.

EPA/ULI DECK

A terror suspect is brought to the committing magistrate at the Federal Supreme Court

One was seized in the southern German state of Baden-Württemberg, one in Brandenburg near Berlin and the other in North Rhine-Westphalia, the state in which Duesseldorf sits.  The terror plot was uncovered because a fourth Syrian man, identified as Saleh A., voluntarily turned himself into authorities in Paris on February 1 and admitted to the plot.  A spokesman for the French ministry of justice said Saleh A told police "information about a sleeper cell" of Isis "prepared to strike in Germany." Saleh A is charged with aiding a terrorist organisation and taken into custody. Germany is seeking his extradition. The planned terror attack called for suicide bombings and mass shootings on Düsseldorf's Heinrich-Heine Allee in the heart of the old town that is full of brewery pubs, shops, restaurants, hotels and clubs.

EPA/ULI DECK

A terror suspect is brought to the committing magistrate at the Federal Supreme Court

One of the suspects had made a request for asylum in Germany after registering at a refugee shelter in Bliesdorf in September of 2015. Officials say ISIS militants took advantage of the mass flow of refugees into Germany to sneak fighters into the country - something the hard right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party has long warned about. According to prosecutors Salah A, 25, and one of the three men arrested in Germany, 27-year-old Hamza C., joined ISIS in Syria in the spring of 2014 and "received orders to carry out an attack in Düsseldorf". The two went to Turkey in May 2014, before continuing separately through Greece to Germany in March and July 2015. By January 2016, a third man, Mahood B., 25, agreed to participate in the attack, prosecutors said.

Reuters

There were believed to be 10 ISIS suicide bombers

Around the same time a fourth man was recruited, Abd Arahman A., 31, who was tasked to make suicide vests. Prosecutors believe Abd Arahman A. had worked previously for the militant group Nusra Front in Syria before IS sent him to Germany. Police said on Friday that the murder plot had nothing to do with the European Football Championships scheduled to kick off in France in less than three weeks and that they could thus far find no link between them and alleged planned atrocities during the tournament.