Ibrahimovic has previously said he would like to finish his career at Celtic (Picture: Getty Images)

Zlatan Ibrahimovic could be about to make a shock move to Celtic if the bookies are right, with the odds on the Sweden international moving to Scotland slashed over the past few hours.

Manchester United had been widely expected to wrap up a deal for the 34-year-old, who was coy on the prospect of reuniting with Jose Mourinho in a recent press conference.

But the veteran striker’s agent, Mino Raiola, has previously said that his client will join a “surprise” club, and the Hoops are now second favourites to land him at 7/4, in from 40/1.

Ibrahimovic is widely expected to join Manchester United (Picture: Getty Images)

Were he to make the move, Ibrahimovic would follow in the footsteps of Sweden legend Henrik Larsson, who spent seven years at Celtic Park, and the former PSG frontman has admitted in the past that he would be open to playing in the Scottish Premiership.

“Celtic is a club with a big tradition and a place any top player would want to end their career,” he said in 2013. “How could I say I wouldn’t want to play for those fans every week?”

He added: “Henrik was good enough to play for any team in Europe. But after playing at Celtic Park it is easy to understand why he chose to stay there for so long.

“No player would ever want to leave playing in the stadium for those fans.”

Brendan Rodgers’ assistant at Celtic, Chris Davies, has added further fuel to the speculation by teasing that the club are in a position to make a huge, statement signing.

“I think we can attract quality here at Celtic, big quality,” he said on Friday. “There is no doubt about it.”

Celtic fans have unsurprisingly pounced on the tweet, deeming it the biggest indication yet that Celtic are pursuing Ibrahimovic, and are now inundating the club’s Twitter account demanding they announce his signing.

MORE: Zlatan Ibrahimovic would be a ‘good’ signing for Manchester United, insists Anthony Martial