The five voting members of the Public Utility Commission of Ohio may not face the physical danger these linemen do, but their jobs can be just as perilous and impact utility customers throughout the state. Notwithstanding that peril, a total of 19 are vying for an open seat on the commission. John Kuntz 

CLEVELAND -- There is a vacancy for one of the five toughest jobs in state government and as usual there are no shortage of candidates.

The job is commissioner of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio.

Andrew Thomas, a lawyer and the Executive in Residence at Cleveland State University's Energy Policy Center, is one of the 19 applicants seeking a gubernatorial appointment to fill the remaining four years of former PUCO Chairman Andre Porter's seat. Porter resigned last month to take a job outside of the state.

Thomas has practiced energy law for more than 30 years, and for the last eight years has developed and directed research into electricity markets, utility regulation, shale oil and gas development and fuel cells at CSU's Levin College of Urban Affairs.

"My work in energy policy research has prepared me to understand the complex industries that a commissioner must regulate," Thomas wrote in his application letter to the PUCO Nominating Council. "Those with knowledge of best practices are also usually those being regulated, but who have self-interested agendas.

"I have spent the last eight years trying to develop unbiased, thoughtful policy analysis at Cleveland State. I believe this would be a useful skill set for a utility commissioner," he wrote.

Among the other contenders are several people who have either worked for the PUCO or appeared before it representing clients for years.

One of the most experienced is recently retired Columbus attorney Howard Petricoff, a former staff attorney for the Ohio attorney general early in his career, but in private practice for more than 30 years representing clients, including natural gas suppliers and the Retail Energy Supply Association, a trade group for independent gas and electricity providers.

Another candidate is lawyer Lawrence Friedeman, vice president of regulatory affairs for IGS Energy, an independent supplier of gas and electricity. Friedeman has also worked for Vectren Corp., an Indiana-based regulated utility with operations in Ohio as well.

Another candidate with extensive regulatory and political experience is Sam Gerhardstein, former director of governmental affairs for Columbia Gas of Ohio and briefly in the 1990s director of legislative affairs for the PUCO. Gerhardstein is now a legislative and regulatory consultant.

Other candidates include:

Richard Bulgrin, a PUCO attorney examiner since 1990 who has presided over extensive hearings in several utility rate cases as well as special cases in which the PUCO developed rules for energy efficiency and renewable resources that utilities must meet.

Matthew Henderson, a PUCO transportation department advisor, former communications director for the Ohio Republican Party and long-time public relations and political consultant.

Edward Hess, a former 30-year PUCO employee who retired in 2009 as Chief of the Accounting and Technical Division of the PUCO's Utilities Department. Hess has since worked as a technical consultant for a law firm.

The 12-member PUCO Nominating Council is now reviewing the resumes of all 19 candidates and on June 9 will announce those whom it has selected to interview.

On June 16, the council will choose the top four candidates in a public vote after interviewing them privately.

Gov. John Kasich will then have 30 days to make the appointment. The governor can also request the names of additional candidates.

The position of commissioner has a salary range of $73,715 to $176,715. The governor determines the exact salary of each commissioner he appoints.