Almost two years ago, indignant about having been labelled a “trained seal” by his former Conservative colleague Brent Rathgeber, Calgary East MP Deepak Obhrai felt compelled to issue a press release.

“’WE are NOT trained seals’, says Deepak Obhrai,” read the headline on the release.

Rathgeber’s criticism had to with the Prime Minister’s Office foisting talking points on the Conservative caucus and pressuring them to vote as instructed, but it’s hardly a stretch to extend that criticism to another automaton-like practice: the knee-jerk applause of answers in question period.

After all, is an MP who cheers every single time his or her party asks or answers a question — no matter how inane — not reminiscent of a trained seal?

With no explanation, on Wednesday and again Thursday — Liberal MPs abruptly stopped the usual practice of clapping and hollering encouragement after government responses in question period.

The sudden stony-faced stoicism perplexed many.

“We don’t have any policy or new development to discuss in this regard,” Sabrina Atwal, press secretary for House Leader Dominic LeBlanc told iPolitics Thursday.

Transport Minister Marc Garneau was a little bit more forthcoming after Thursday’s question period, revealing that it was an idea spontaneously embraced in Wednesday’s caucus meeting.

“There was no particular impetus, as far as I know. I think it was just something we – somebody brought up in caucus and we thought it was a good idea, and I kind of like it,” he told reporters.

“It’s a bit different. We have to get used to it. I used to be a bit of heckler myself, but I’m enjoying it.”

Maybe it was the fallout from elbowgate that spurred the Liberals to quickly search for a way to make question period, and by extension all activity in the House of Commons, more decorous.

But the Conservative Party wasn’t buying it.

Former Conservative trade minister Ed Fast told Postmedia it was “artificial and contrived”.

And yet he defended clapping in a narrow set of circumstances.

“We will continue to support our colleagues when we feel they’ve asked fair but assertive questions,” he said. “And we would expect our colleagues across the aisle to do the same thing when there’s a response that deserves applause.”

Conservative MP Erin O’Toole, who also served in cabinet with Fast, saw something more insidious in the change and dismissed the possibility anything positive could come from it.

Another former cabinet colleague, Lisa Raitt, supported that conclusion.

The NDP were more agnostic.

Nathan Cullen told Postmedia that, like he would at a speech or hockey game, he shows his enthusiasm by applauding.

“Parliament hasn’t become disruptive because of clapping,” he said. “Parliament gets disrupted because people are offensive and insulting, and won’t work together.”