Rekha Bhardwaj reflects on her favourite song and the acceptance of different voices in film industry

The fresh and distinct voice of Rekha Bhardwaj is known to everyone. The Delhi-born singer was recently in the Capital for a concert where she mesmerised the audience with her chartbusters like “Kabira”, “Phir Le Aya Dil”, “Namak Issq Ka” and “Sasural Genda Phool”. In an interaction the accomplished playback singer talks about her inspirations, her journey from classical to playback and comparisons with Pakistani music industry.You were a fresh/different voice when you came to the industry. Do you think your acceptance has created space for youngsters with new textures?“Namak Ishq Ka”, I think, was a changing point in my career. Back then time was moving in a direction where a change had to come. But we never planned it like that, we did not plan it to be a trendsetter, but the song turned out to be a trendsetter. In the sense that this kind of voice can also be used in film songs. Now, I think there are a lot of fresh voices to listen to. I also think that because among our younger music directors, a lot of them have been singers also. They have had their own bands and that brings western influence on the music, which I think has changed a lot of things. There is a good blend of Indian and western sensibilities of music in a lot of composers. That has brought a change and has opened gates for fresh voices.How has been your journey from semi-classical and classical to playback singing?I have learnt classical music and have grown up listening to it. Being born and brought up in Delhi, I have been exposed to a lot of good classical music. That is where my roots are. I still do my riyaaz for two to three hours. I try to remain rooted in my music. Having your roots in classical music is like having a strong foundation. My ultimate goal is to sing a raag, and when I sing a playback song, the riyaaz I do, the practice I do and my sensibilities get translated into that song. I am not a different person as a playback singer than as a singer with roots in classical music. For me it is very important to feel the music and feel the lyrics. I let the music absorb in my veins and then whatever comes out comes out very naturally and very organically. That’s why my songs have a positive effect on people.Tell us about your favourite song and the process of its recording.It’s difficult to pick one but one of my songs that got more popular than any other song was “Kabira” from Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani. I worked with Pritam for this song. Pritam and I have a good relationship and good tuning. When I had to record for Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani, I recorded “Ghaghra” first, and then I had to record “Kabira”. But I also had to go to Kashmir and somehow Pritam forgot about my travel dates, and when I was travelling he asked me if I could come and record “Kabira”. I told him, I am travelling. On the third day of my trip, director Ayan (Mukherji) called me and told me that they have booked a studio for me in Srinagar and if I could come and record. That time I was at a holy mosque, somewhere in Kashmir. From there I went to Srinagar and recorded the song. I think the spirituality and serenity of Kashmir reflects in that song. As I sung it, I did not know the context of the song in the movie. But later when I saw it, I thought it fit perfectly in the movie.Advertisement: Replay AdAds by ZINCDo you think Sufi music, which is also one of your strengths, can help in overcoming the kind of tension that is prevalent in the country right now?Music, in general, has the power to heal the environment. I think music is like a prayer. In Sufi music, even the text talks about the connection with one divine being. It can help anyone reach that stage to attain divinity.When you are singing for a higher energy, the atmosphere changes, and that happens with classical music also. What is your take on digital media and shows like Coke Studio?I think platforms such as “Coke Studio” and “MTV Unplugged” are very good. These platforms are giving chance to younger talent also and are also bringing fresh music. The digital media platforms are also very good as they allow young artists to upload their content and find their audience. Also the dependency on music companies has reduced and artists can release their own work. I see a very bright future for the music industry.You have recently worked in the Pakistani music industry. Tell us about your experience.It’s like an exchange programme. They have immensely talented artists like Atif Aslam and Ghulam Ali sahib. There is not a lot of difference between our and their industry apart from the type of music that is being composed. Their Coke Studio is way ahead of ours. They don’t kill their verses by sound and keep the essence of their songs alive. They bring their folk music and ghazals together and embellish it beautifully.