Jeff Hornacek is happy to be in New York. But given his lack of ties to Phil Jackson, what does his hiring say about Jackson’s future with the Knicks?  When word Jeff Hornacek had agreed to a contract to become head coach of the New York Knicks finally came down this week, the overwhelming feeling for the team’s fans was relief. By no means is that a reflection on Hornacek’s coaching abilities. Instead, it is the gulf represented by the difference between Hornacek and Kurt Rambis, the interim coach of the Knicks who struggled mightily both in his half season in New York and his two years in Minnesota. Under normal circumstances, a coach with Rambis’ resume would have no chance of having the job long-term. But this was no normal set of circumstances, given the friendship between Rambis and Knicks president Phil Jackson, as well as Rambis’ willingness to run Jackson’s prized triangle offense. The fact the Knicks will be introducing Hornacek – a coach with no ties to Jackson, and no familiarity with his offense – instead of Rambis at a press conference at the team’s practice facility in the Westchester suburbs Friday afternoon gives added ammunition to the arguments of those who believe Jackson’s time with the franchise is drawing to a close. There is a mutual option in Jackson’s contract next summer, allowing both the legendary coach and the team’s mercurial owner, James Dolan, the ability to get out of the final two years of his deal if they choose to do so. Then there is the matter of the ongoing drama surrounding the Los Angeles Lakers, the team Jackson led to five championships – and also happens to be owned by his fiancé, Jeanie Buss. The frosty relationship between Buss and her brother, Jim, is well-documented. It has manifested itself recently in the debate surrounding the three-year timeline that Jim, the Lakers’ vice president of basketball operations, is under to try and turn the franchise around. The fact next season is the third year of said plan – coinciding with the option in Jackson’s contract – is lost on no one. Those factors put together make it easy to connect the dots to Jackson returning to Los Angeles next summer and reuniting with his fiancé to run the Lakers – a team that has hired Luke Walton and Brian Shaw, two longtime players for the organization under Jackson, as its head coach and lead assistant coach this summer. Jeanie Buss said in a recent radio interview no such plan is in place, but given Jackson is running another team and her brother still is under her employ, she didn’t have a choice to say anything else even if it was. But as the Lakers hired Walton, the Knicks were expected to also hire a coach with ties to Jackson, as he did when he hired Derek Fisher two years ago. Instead, the Knicks have hired Hornacek, whose only tie to the triangle offense is playing against it during his NBA career, including two trips to the Finals against Jackson’s Bulls in 1997 and ’98.      Sports Daily newsletter Sports news with a focus on D.C. area teams.  Please provide a valid email address.      Sign up     While Hornacek doesn’t have the same ties to Jackson the Knicks were expected to have in their next coach, it has the potential to be an inspired choice. Hornacek’s two-plus seasons in Phoenix began with the Suns being one of the NBA’s surprise teams in 2013-14, winning 49 games in part because of how effective Channing Frye was as a floor-spacing center. Kristaps Porzingis, coming off a promising rookie season, has the chance to be a far, far superior version of Frye in Hornacek’s offense. The issue will be the same one the Knicks had last season: Hornacek ran an uptempo system in Phoenix, leaning on multiple skilled ball handlers being on the court at once. But all four point guards who were with the Suns during Hornacek’s tenure – Goran Dragic, Eric Bledsoe, Isaiah Thomas and Brandon Knight – are massively superior options to what the Knicks had. If the Knicks are going to make a significant step forward next season, it will be up to Jackson to find a way to upgrade the position – a tall order, given New York’s lack of assets and the relatively thin crop of point guards on the open market this summer. Still, the combination of Carmelo Anthony and expected improvement from Porzingis in his second season should give Hornacek the kind of weapons to allow for the Knicks to take at least make incremental improvements next season, and possibly contend for one of the last spots in the Eastern Conference playoff picture. All of that, however will serve as a backdrop to the drama set to play out over the next 12 months at Madison Square Garden. Until a decision has to be made by both sides about Jackson’s future, whether he is going to remain with the Knicks for the long haul is the only question about this franchise that matters.