Twirling around on small stages under hot lights, burlesque performers have perfected the arts of waterproofing makeup, hiding scars from prying eyes (and cameras!) and creating distractions as well as any magician.

The Post asked pinup vintage star, burlesque performer and lingerie designer Lily Faye, a classic Hollywood beauty with Rita Hayworth curls and the smile to match, how she makes visual magic happen onstage. Here’s how you can learn from her secrets.

HAIR

Do your curls always fall five hours — or even two hours — after you leave the house, and well before your special event? Lily Faye has fabulous curls, but they don’t come just from a curling iron. Dirty hair sets better, so use dry shampoo to refresh your hair and roll it on up. Lily uses a setting solution like Lottabody and then puts her hair in rollers or pin curls. “If you need to set your hair for tonight but don’t want to go outside in curlers, put a cute headscarf and some red lips on, and go about your day,” Lily Faye says. “You’ll look instantly vintage!” You can do the same on a Saturday until you head out for your big date or gala, or if it’s rainy or humid outside. If you’re really fancy, opt for a bonnet hair dryer — yes, the kind at the beauty salon in Steel Magnolias.

SKIN

Burlesque performers’ smooth skin comes from some theatre-level disguise makeup, not your everyday BB cream or tinted moisturizer. “If you’re self-conscious about marks or scars on your legs that prevent you from wearing skirts or dresses, Dermablend can give them a smooth look,” she says. To smooth out the appearance of your legs, mix a little of the ultra-high coverage formula into your lotion before applying. You can even blend some of your foundation into your lotion and do the same. Apply with your fingers and blend it in with a sponge or a makeup brush.

LASHES

One of the things you’ll most notice about burlesque performers is how much their eyes pop onstage and in photos. One of the biggest reasons for this are false lashes. Now, while you might not want to wear the super-long lashes of performers, you can double layer your lashes — as in, glue two pairs superclose to the lash line. When Lily does her lashes, she bends the fake lash into a semi-circle and rolls it back and forth in her fingers to give it the shape of her lid. “Let the glue get tacky and dry for one to two minutes before putting them on,” Lily advises. “This makes them stick to your eyelid better.”

GLITTER LIPS

To accomplish lips like the burlesque stars — yes, the ones that sparkle like Dorothy’s ruby slippers — do like Lily Faye does and use a moist lipstick that doesn’t matte, then use a makeup-specific glitter like Ben Nye (don’t use cheap craft glitter, as it can cause staph infections). “Make sure you use a moist lipstick that doesn’t dry out or matte,” Lily warns. Glitter applied over a matte lipstick would flake eventually. After putting on your lipstick, use your finger to gently pat glitter onto your lips, making sure to stay within the lines.

UNDERWEAR

You might be a beautiful woman with stuff to strut, but if your bra and dress fit you frumpily, it’ll disguise all your natural assets. “I have this problem too,” Lily says. “If you learn basic sewing, you can shorten the straps without a tailor,” Lily says. “If not, you can take the bra to your local tailor or dry cleaner’s for alteration.” It’s easier than you think to extend the life of a prized, expensive bra with cups that fit perfectly.

EMBELLISHMENTS

Regular clothes are getting increasingly more rockstar by the day. What we see at Topshop and Forever21 these days looks like Joan Jett or Madonna’s clothes of the ’80s. So how can you add a little sparkle or rockstar appeal to your clothes? Instead of buying that $80 studded bustier from Topshop, hit up fabric and trim stores, where you can find studs, lace trim, rhinestones and more to embellish your clothes, bras and even underwear. Buy a bottle of Gem-Tac and use a toothpick to apply a small amount of the glue to the back of the rhinestones, then gently set the rhinestone down on the fabric without pressing too hard. After your it dries overnight, you’ll have your own sparkly bustier.

CORSETS

Burlesque performers are known for their ability to work a corset like models work a runway. It’s not that all of them start out with hourglass figures, but waist training can push you in that direction. If you haven’t heard of waist training, it’s controversial, but many find it has  the added benefit of improving your posture. Head to a corset store (Lily recommends Orchard Corset on the Lower East Side of New York, if you’re in the area). The employees should know their stuff, and will help you find the right beginner corset for you. There are lots of cheap imitation corsets out there, but a real corset gives you a true hourglass shape, not a ‘tube’ shape,” Lily counsels. Corsets run by waist size, so measure your waist and subtract approximately four inches to find your size. For example, a 30-inch waist should try a size 26 corset. If you want a made-to-measure custom corset, Lily recommends designer Jasmine Ines of Sin and Satin.

FOUNDATION

Lily finds that she had trouble matching one foundation to her neck and face, but then had an “aha!” moment and realized she needed more than one foundation, blending one color into another at transition points. “You don’t want to look like you’re wearing a mask,” she says. Instead of using the back of her hand to test foundation, she applies it to her face. Test on your jawline, and make sure you don’t already have makeup on. Always look at the color in daylight before deciding on it. And don’t stop at your jawline — continue onto the neck to make sure the color matches there as well. If you’re wearing a low-cut dress, apply to your chest too.

MAKEUP REMOVAL

Go all-natural in your makeup removal and use coconut oil or almond oil to remove your makeup. “You can break down stubborn makeup without wearing down your face,” Lily says. Use a washcloth to wipe the oil off, and then follow with a gentle wash.