Canada Post claimed a "crown copyright" over the postal codes assigned to Canadian homes, meaning that Canadian organisations and businesses could only use this vital information if they paid -- that is, they'd have to pay to access something their taxes already paid for, and the richer you were, the more access you could afford.

An Ottawa startup called Geocoder crowdsourced the creation of a new database, asking Canadians to send in their addresses and postal codes, and giving free access to all comers. Canada Post sued them.

Now, four years -- and a change in government -- later, the post office has dropped its suit.

The Canada Post lawsuit has been simmering for several years, but late last month the parties reached a settlement. Canada Post has agreed to discontinue the lawsuit and Geocoder will continue to make its database available to the public. The settlement statement acknowledges:

The postal codes returned by various geocoder interface APIs and downloadable on geocoder.ca, are estimated via a crowdsourcing process. They are not licensed by geocoder.ca from Canada Post, the entity responsible for assigning postal codes to street addresses.

The settlement represents a big win for open data in Canada, as the lawsuit raised serious concerns about over-broad copyright claims given suggestions that Canada Post owned the copyright in all postal codes. As Geocoder notes, CIPPIC and Ridout & Maybee provided support in contesting the lawsuit.

Canada Post Drops Lawsuit Over Crowdsourced Postal Codes

[Michael Geist]

Neil Gaiman’s third book was a history of the Hitchhikers Guide the Galaxy called Don’t Panic, which Adams described as “devastatingly true – except the bits that are lies.”

If you’re fascinated by paper art and pop-up books, then the name of 51-year old Robert Sabuda will resonate like that of a Zen master. He’s a legend in the world of children’s books, paper design, and engineering, with many famous books to his credit (my favorites are The Wizard of Oz and Alice in […]

Caleb Kraft used overlapping graham crackers and icing/glue to piece together a functional, edible Google Cardboard viewer whose only inedible components were the lenses (which Kraft says he could have made from edible material — sugar? — but lacked the time for).

Between cyber-thieves, government agencies and other shadowy forces, the Web is chock-full of malicious entities looking to co-opt your online data. The solution? A virtual private network (VPN), which helps you browse anonymously and secure your data. You can get one of PC Mag’s best reviewed VPNs with Hotspot Shield Elite VPN, now only $39.99 for a premium […]

Trick out your Mac with an 8-pack of handy Mac apps in this World Class Mac Bundle, now going for over 90% off in the Boing Boing Store.From creative tools to organizational aids, these apps will not only power your projects, but get your Mac running as efficiently as you do.Here’s what’s in your bundle:Data Rescue 4:  Recover […]

Vaping continues to become increasingly popular, meaning there is a growing selection of premium vaping products on the market. Here’s one that should get your attention: the AtmosRX Combo Vaporizer Bundle. This top-notch bundle includes the Rx Dry Herb Vaporizer, plus a bundle of accessories and flavors. Grab it now: it’s currently 73% off in the Boing Boing Store.The Atmos […]