Golden State Warriors guard Shaun Livingston scored a personal postseason best of 20 points against Cleveland. (Kyle Terada-USA TODAY Sports)  It is bad enough the Cleveland Cavaliers have to deal with a loss in Game 1 of the NBA Finals to the Golden State Warriors. It’s worse when you factor in Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson’s combined 20 points on 8-for-27 shooting. Led by backup point guard Shaun Livingston’s 20 points, the Warriors’ “Bench Brothers” decimated the Cavaliers, outscoring Cleveland’s bench 45-10, which included turning a one-point deficit with 1 minute 49 seconds remaining in the third quarter into an 88-74 lead midway through the fourth.    Leandro Barbosa scored 11 points and was perfect from the floor (5-for-5 shooting), while 2015 Finals MVP Andre Iguodala added 12 points, grabbed seven rebounds and dished out six assists — he also made sure Cavaliers’ superstar LeBron James didn’t have an easy shot all night.  “We play a lot of people, and we feel like we have a lot of talent on the bench that can come in and score when we need it,” Coach Steve Kerr told reporters after the game. “So it’s a great sign, obviously, that we can win in the finals without those two guys having big games, but it’s not really that surprising to us.”   [Warriors bench delivers decisive Game 1 verdict]   If you’re Cleveland, you take solace in the fact that Livingston, Barbosa, and Iguodala all overachieved in the same game at the same time. Their individual game scores — a metric created by John Hollinger to give a rough measure of a player’s productivity for a single game — were by and large higher than any of their playoff performances this year, so a repeat performance is unlikely.    But what’s also unlikely to continue is Curry and Thompson missing so many of their shots. And because those two require defensive attention, we could see more of the same in Game 2. For example, here is Cleveland (justifiably) focusing its defensive attention on Curry, who is running from corner to corner — leaving Iguodala all alone behind the arc. Iman Shumpert, who gets caught in the pick, realizes he has to get back to his man too late, and instead gives Iguodala a wide-open look.      Sports Break newsletter National sports news, in your inbox daily.  Please provide a valid email address.      Sign up      Cleveland would again focus on the Warriors more potent scorers and leave Iguodala and Andrew Bogut out near the top of the arc. He’d eventually miss from three, but at least Bogut got another good, open look off this play.    You have to give credit to the Warriors’ bench for making plays, too. Livingston, who became the first player in league history to lead the winning team in scoring in Game 1 of the NBA Finals after not leading his team in scoring during the preceding regular season or playoffs, made a number of nifty plays that included cutting to the basket, dribbling off the pick and grabbing offensive rebounds for second-chance points.    Shaun Livingston vs. Cavs in Game 1 of 2016 NBA Finals  “You don’t win championships without the entire squad coming in and making an impact on games,” Curry said after the game. “That’s why we’re here.”