The headlines may say we're likely to vote to stay in the EU... just.   But the vast numbers of polls done on the EU referendum tell us so much more.  They suggest that the UK is divided on all kinds of lines, including age, wealth and education. How many people turn out - and who they are - may ultimately determine our future in Europe.  There is a generational divide

The statistics clearly show that the older people are, the more likely they are to want to leave the EU. The figures above are taken from a YouGov poll of 1,735 people for The Times done between May 30 and 31, which showed that overall the country was split 50/50. However, the same age-group trends have been seen continuously in polls since the referendum was announced.   Related:

Someone has vandalised this Vote Leave sign and it'll make you laugh    There is a class divide

Polls have shown repeatedly that the professional and managerial classes, AB, are the most likely to vote to stay in the EU. This poll, for ICM and the Guardian done on May 29-30, suggests that the class most likely to vote to leave is the C2 class - described as skilled working class or skilled manual workers. In this poll, less skilled manual workers and people on benefits or casual work are also significantly inclined to vote out. Again, the same trend has been seen repeatedly in the polls.  People with less education want out of the EU

YouGov collated the results of several of their polls to drill deeper into the results. And when looking at the results of 16,000 people surveyed, it was clear that the more highly educated people were the more likely they were to support staying in the EU.   Related:

Social media analysis suggests Wales wants to leave the EU    Your newspaper indicates your likely vote

Taken from the same YouGov survey of surveys, the results are again striking. Guardian readers are nearly universally in favour of staying in the EU with 91% planning to vote to remain. At the other end of the scale, Daily Express readers are almost certain to vote to leave with 77% expressing opposition to EU membership.  Geography reflects all of this but shows something else as well

Many of the differences in the map above created by University of Bristol academics using YouGov data can be explained by the factors mentioned above. Fiercely pro-EU areas like London in pale pink have more graduates, more younger people and more wealth. Areas with many retirees and lower average incomes - including seaside spots, rural areas and former industrial areas like the Heads of the Valleys, the West Midlands and parts of Yorkshire want to leave and are shown in dark red with a black border. But there is another factor it shows as well. Much of Scotland and areas of West Wales like Ceredigion defy the factors above - and suggest they have a different political culture.   Read more:

The part of rural Wales that is the most pro-European place in the UK    Who will turn out to vote?

Lord Ashcroft Polls

This chart created from the extensive polling done by right-wing peer Lord Ashcroft suggests that the campaign is finely poised. However, it also seems those who say they want to leave the EU are more certain in their minds, with far more saying they are 100% certain to vote Leave (23%) than say they are 100% certain to vote Remain (4%). And the age groups most likely to vote to leave are also those most likely to turn out to the polls, not least pensioners.  What will be in their minds?

Lord Ashcroft Polls

Lord Ashcroft's view is that this is a fight between risk and control: Fear of the economic risks of leaving the EU vs the attraction of controlling our own borders and regulations. The above map are the words people used when asked which piece of evidence on the Remain side had been the most compelling. It is dominated by economic and security factors. The one below shows what evidence on the Leave side they found most compelling and focuses on three issues, borders, legislation and cost.

Lord Ashcroft Polls

Wales is torn

2013-122014-022014-092015-012015-052015-062015-092015-122016-022016-032016-042016-05Date of the survey1520253035404550% of the voteRemain a member of the EULeave the EUWould not vote/Do not know

Wales Political Barometer

Polls done by YouGov in Wales suggest Wales is going to narrowly vote to stay in. However it is far from certain. The polls have yo-yoed back and forwards. And two polls in Wales since February have given the Leave campaign the lead. In this the situation is very similar to England.     Here is the latest poll of polls for the UK as a whole.

FT poll of polls

The figures above are the average of all the polls across the UK, both telephone and online, calculated as a rolling average. It gives the Remain campaign a narrow lead.  However some of the more recent polls have suggested that the Leave campaign is gaining the upper hand.  Three recent polls have shown leads for Brexit:    May 27-30: An ICM phone poll gave Leave 52% May 27-30: An ICM online poll gave Leave 52% May 25-29: An ORB phone poll gave Leave 53%    Bookmakers make Remain the winners - but more money is being wagered on Brexit

The latest polls have seen money flooding in for Leave, according to the bookmakers. "Money just came rushing in for Leave," says Coral, who say 80 per cent are gambling on an Out vote. Ladbrokes said Tuesday saw "the biggest move in the referendum betting markets" and that there has been "a big spike in bets on Leave" over the past week. William Hill, meanwhile, reported "the most intensive gamble yet" on a Brexit vote and a "sudden stream of bets from Exeter to Oldham". William Hill says that Brexit bets account for 70 per cent of its total.