This shade garden includes Hosta 'Halcyon,' wild European ginger, barrenwort, yellow fumitory, variegated Japanese forest grass and cut-leaf Japanese maple.

Ailsa Francis

Few words elicit more fear for novice gardeners than this one: shade. But knowing what will thrive in low light will ensure your garden in the shadows will be beautiful. Here is a list of my top picks for shady gardens anywhere.

Hosta: Wait, don’t be mad. I know there are plenty of people who are weary of this perennial and there are many varieties that I wouldn’t bother with, but there are also many others that are drop-dead gorgeous. From the largest ones (“Krossa Regal” or “Sagae”) to mid-size (“June” or “Halcyon”) to the littles (“Fire Island”), there is a hosta to convert even the most die-hard naysayer.

Ferns: I mention ferns after hostas because they complement each other so well. I give ferns priority over astilbes because the latter react so sensitively to drought and as such, are not good candidates for shade gardens that don’t receive regular moisture. Notable is lady fern (Athryrium filix-femina), which is the mother plant for the striking variations of the Japanese painted fern, a silvery standout in the green garden.

Lenten rose: this plant (Helleborus) should have a place in every shade garden as it produces dark green and palm-shaped leaves that stay rigid and fresh looking all summer long. It doesn’t hurt that the downward-turning spring flowers are some of the most hauntingly beautiful you’ll ever see.

Yellow fumitory and dwarf bleeding heart: the former (Corydalis lutea) seeds joyously in the garden, able to make a foothold in the most impossible cracks and show off its feathery foliage and non-stop diminutive yellow blooms. The dwarf version of bleeding heart is not only unaffected by summer heat but also blooms continuously (Dicentra cultivars include “Luxuriant,” “Langtrees” and “Margery Fish,” among others).

Japanese forest grass: for movement in the shady garden, this grass can’t be beat. Choose “All Gold” to lighten up a dark corner or stick with the green species (Hakonechloa macra) to create a carpet of tall, waving grass.

Golden creeping jenny, wild ginger and sweet woodruff: these three (Lysimachia nummularia “Aurea,” Asarum, Galium odoratum) are all excellent low-growing ground-covers in heavily shaded locations. The last is the only visible bloomer with star-shaped white flowers, but the first two respectively provide bright gold and care-free foliage.

Big-root geranium: reliable, scented, strong or light-pink flowering (Geranium macrorrhizum cultivars), this workhorse is perfect for large areas to create a groundcover mat.

Goatsbeard: either the big one (Aruncus dioicus) or the small cultivated one (A. x “Misty Lace”) that is more able to resist drought and blooms for a month.

Astilboides: think giant, green spinning plates mid-tumble. This plant (Astilboides tabularis) is a bit of a curiosity but well worth a place in the mid-border where moisture and part shade can be reliably given.

Bishop’s hat: I would not be without this plant (Epimedium) both for its beautifully veined and utterly charming foliage but also its dancing flowers in the spring that resemble orchids. An understated beauty that thrives, once established, in dry shade.

Ailsa Francis blogs at hortus2.wordpress.com