Rachaele reached out to the new-mum in a heartwarming Facebook post (Picture: Facebook/Part-Time Working Mummy)

One mother and blogger made one hell of a Facebook post. 

15 things you should never say to a new mum

It’s a post that’ll have you in fits of giggles before hitting the sensitive side and leaving you an emotional wreck.

Rachaele Hambleton, the woman behind Facebook page Part-Time Working Mummy, popped into Mothercare to quickly use the toilets, before returning to her car to leave.

Before she left, she noticed a lady was struggling to get her pram out of her boot as her newborn baby was having ‘one of the best newborn meltdowns’ she had ever heard.

(Picture: Getty)

‘Do I do what everyone else in the carpark is doing and pretend I can’t see her and drive off? Or do I try and help her,’ Rachaele wrote.

Of course, she decided to help. After approaching, she found out that the lady in question was a 23-year-old beautiful girl who was having a massive ‘What the f*** have I done?’ moment.

Rachaele said: ‘She’d stormed out on her boyfriend because he hurled the word ‘depressed’ at her in an argument, she decided to show him that he could go f*** himself and clean the house that he keeps moaning isn’t tidy enough. So off she went with her eight-week-old baby boy.’

MORE: Woman hits back at ‘stigmatising’ meme saying antidepressants are ‘sh*t’

But unfortunately for the mother, her child had had an accident and she had forgotten his nappies and any spare clothes, and the screams to be fed had caused her breasts to leak through her bra – and so she drove straight to Mothercare.

‘Somehow the thought of buying him new clothes and herself breast pads, then trying to change this shit-covered baby and clean down a car seat whilst he was screaming with starvation in front of a shop full of people was better than going home and facing the feeling of being even more of a failure to her partner,’ Rachaele concluded.

(Picture: Getty)

But Rachaele didn’t judge – instead, she understood. In fact, the entire situation reminded her of giving birth to her own child at the age of 22.

She related to the woman more than ever. ‘I remember feeling like I was failing every single day,’ she said.

‘I remember never experiencing anger like it at everyone but her…. for being asked why I hadn’t managed to run the hoover round, or when my mum started moaning about my dog being full of germs and getting too close to her.

‘Or my mother-in-law for asking why her cradle cap hadn’t cleared itself up yet. All the people that assume you’re “just coping” and cannot fathom out why when they ask you what they deem to be a “simple question” sends you over the edge.’

MORE: Mum shares ‘good day’ and ‘bad day’ photos to show how easy it is to hide depression and anxiety

Knowing what this woman was going through gave Rachaele this urge to help. So, she bought the breast pads, nappies and vests the woman needed and helped her sort her child out.

Then, they sat together as the woman fed the baby, and spoke about how ‘hard it is to be a mum’.

(Picture: Getty)

‘It became clear to me this girl just needs some love and support from everyone around her,’ Rachaele said.

‘She needs to be able to sit on her bathroom floor and sob to the point she’s being so dramatic she’s hyperventilating about how she’s ruined her whole life, then half an hour later when she is crying with laughter at Gavin and Stacey she needs her partner not to ask if she thinks she could be bipolar.

‘Her family need to listen to her breakdown about the fact she feels like broken glass is slicing her nipples off every time she latches the baby on to feed – she feels like she has no life as he has been stuck to her tit for the past 2 months since he came out of her fanny which is also now ruined for life.’

She added: ‘They DO NOT need to offer to go to Sainsburys and buy her a box of SMA because they think its clear ‘breastfeeding isn’t for her’.’

Rachaele also spoke of how it was important that her partner helps, instead of expecting too much for her.

‘There is plenty more Saturday nights for the rest of his life,’ Rachaele said.

(Picture: Getty)

‘I get she is an absolute cow to be around 99% of the time – but her whole body has gone to s***, her life is now controlled by another tiny human.

‘She doesn’t have the choice to get dressed up and go and get smashed with her mates so watching you getting ready for a night out is going to make this s*** situation a whole lot s***ter.’

Rachaele also felt it was important to let the woman know that all of this stress is simply temporary.

She wrote: ‘One minute you’re at the doctors being dramatic because your six-month-old has a rash on her neck, then what feels like 5 minutes later you’re back screaming for antidepressants for yourself because the same child didn’t get her primary school placement.’

But most important of all, Rachaele took away something that she had struggled to realise before.

‘We worked out together, it’s hard. Whether your baby is 30 minutes old or 30 years, they are your baby for life – and once they come into this world everything’s changed… forever.’

Incredibly, the pair went on to swap numbers so that they can keep in touch – and we hope that this beautiful post also turns into the most amazing friendship.

MORE: Mum gives ‘horribly behaved’ teens valuable lesson by offering life-advice and coffee