A Goldsboro, North Carolina woman bought her neighbor's used freezer for $30, not realizing it contained frozen parts of the seller's dead mother.

Curiously, the buyer had the freezer for several weeks before opening it because the seller told her it was part of a "time capsule" project at Sunday School and the church would pick up the contents. The church folks never came, so the buyer finally peeked inside, spotted the body, and called 911.

The seller had already moved away but is under police investigation for  felony concealing or failing to notify the death of a person.

“(She was) Just the sweetest lady," the buyer said of the seller. "I mean quiet, kept to herself, stayed at home. Just unbelievable how she could just stick her mom in a freezer."

Also unbelievable is that someone would purchase a used, $30 freezer without opening it first.

(WNCN)

Caleb Kraft used overlapping graham crackers and icing/glue to piece together a functional, edible Google Cardboard viewer whose only inedible components were the lenses (which Kraft says he could have made from edible material — sugar? — but lacked the time for).

Last week, around 70 people participated in a “Space-out Competition” by the Han River in Seoul, Korea. According to Korea Bizwire, “The contestant who remained in the most stable, spaced-out position without falling asleep would be declared the winner.” “I get most stressed when I’m waiting for my boss’s approval or listening to his never-ending […]

Michael from Muckrock found a reference to “Untangling the Web,” an internal NSA guide to the Internet, on Google Books, so he requisitioned a copy from the NSA under the Freedom of Information Act.

Between cyber-thieves, government agencies and other shadowy forces, the Web is chock-full of malicious entities looking to co-opt your online data. The solution? A virtual private network (VPN), which helps you browse anonymously and secure your data. You can get one of PC Mag’s best reviewed VPNs with Hotspot Shield Elite VPN, now only $39.99 for a premium […]

Trick out your Mac with an 8-pack of handy Mac apps in this World Class Mac Bundle, now going for over 90% off in the Boing Boing Store.From creative tools to organizational aids, these apps will not only power your projects, but get your Mac running as efficiently as you do.Here’s what’s in your bundle:Data Rescue 4:  Recover […]

Vaping continues to become increasingly popular, meaning there is a growing selection of premium vaping products on the market. Here’s one that should get your attention: the AtmosRX Combo Vaporizer Bundle. This top-notch bundle includes the Rx Dry Herb Vaporizer, plus a bundle of accessories and flavors. Grab it now: it’s currently 73% off in the Boing Boing Store.The Atmos […]