Dog owners who forget to take a bag to pick up their pet’s poo face a £100 fine under tough new rules.  Redcar and Cleveland Council has become one of the first local authorities in the country to introduce the new powers - which carry fines for anyone caught flouting the orders.   What are the new rules?  The Public Spaces Protection Order will see new offences grouped alongside existing offences under the wide ranging order. The new offences are:    Failure to have the means to pick up after a dog;   Failure to pick up after a dog;   Not allowing dogs in fenced-off children’s playgrounds;    Not allowing dogs in areas of Redcar and Saltburn beaches between May 1 and September 30;    Not allowing dogs in any of the council’s nine cemeteries.

The beach at Redcar is popular with dog walkers

When does it come into force?  The fines will be introduced from Friday, July 1, with notices being displayed around the borough now.  How will the council enforce the new rules?   Redcar and Cleveland Council has 15 officers who carry out a range of enforcement work covering dog-fouling and parking.  Officers from the team routinely patrol dog fouling hotspots around the borough including early mornings, evenings and on weekends. They may wear plain clothes and usually use an unmarked vehicle to keep a low profile.  What if I’m asked to show a dog poo bag and I refuse?  Officers have no powers to stop and search, however, it is an offence to fail to produce a bag or other means of picking up after your dog when asked by an authorised enforcement officer. They will ask for your name and address and issue a fixed penalty fine of £100 if you refuse or are unable to produce a bag.

Redcar and Cleveland is to fine dog owners who don't carry bags to pick up after their pets

What happens if my dog fouls in a public place and I don’t clean it up?  If an authorised officer witnesses you not cleaning up after your dog you may be given a fixed penalty of £100 - which needs to be paid within 14 days. You may also be issued with a fixed penalty notice if the council secure a witness statement from another person such as a council officer or another member of the public witnessing the offence. If you refuse to pay the fixed penalty you may be taken to court and fined up to £1,000 plus court costs.  Why do the council think we need the order?  The council received 590 dog fouling reports between October 1, 2014 and September 30, 2015. Dog faeces poses significant health risks to children and adults such as toxocariasis which can lead to blindness. Treading in dog mess can also lead to slips, trips and falls. In a council survey 98% supported the council’s plan to continue to make it an offence for people who fail to pick up after their dog with more than 87% agreeing dog walkers should carry the means to pick up after their dog.

Should dog owners be fined for not carrying poo bags?

What can I use to pick up the waste?  Ordinary plastic carrier bag, dog poo bag or poop scoop device.  I’ve bagged it but I can’t find a dog waste bin, what do I do?  Dog poo can be bagged and placed in any litter bin. If there are no bins available take it home and put it in your household waste bin.  What if I’m walking a dog that’s not mine and it poos, is it my responsibility to pick it up?  Yes. The rules apply to the person in charge of the dog when it fouls.  I use an assistance dog. Do the same rules apply?  The rules do not apply to anyone registered as blind or with a disability affecting their mobility, manual dexterity or ability to life, carry or move everyday objects and who relies on a dog trained by a prescribed charity for assistance.  What is the council saying about it?  Councillor Alec Brown, the council’s cabinet member for neighbourhoods, said: “Dog fouling is a blight on the green spaces enjoyed by residents and visitors to our borough. "Hopefully the introduction of the Public Spaces Protection Order will show the minority of irresponsible dog owners that the council will not tolerate their rude behaviour.”  How do I report dog fouling in Redcar and Cleveland?   You can click here or call 01642 774774.