Chris Nihmey, author of Two Sides to the Story: Living a Lie, a memoir about his battle with mental illness, and Sally, an illustrated picture book centred on the connection between mental illness and homelessness, hosts a book signing at Arts in the Park in Stittsville, Sunday, June 5.

Bruno Schlumberger / Ottawa Citizen

SATURDAY, JUNE 4 

Ottawa’s favourite open-air literary festival and book fair, Prose in the Park, takes place from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. in Parkdale Park. Sixty-seven moderators and panellists, and more than 100 authors and a dozen small presses, will be presenting and selling their latest works of fiction, non-fiction and poetry. Free event. Info: www.proseinthepark.com.

Dan Conlin will be signing copies of his new book, War Through the Lens: the Canadian Army Film and PhotoUnit, 1941-45; 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., Books on Beechwood, 35 Beechwood Ave. Info: booksonbeechwood.ca

SUNDAY, JUNE 5 

Chris Nihmey, author of Two Sides to the Story: Living a Lie, a memoir about his battle with mental illness, and Sally, an illustrated picture book centred on the connection between mental illness and homelessness, hosts a book signing at Arts in the Park in Stittsville, 12 p.m. to 5 p.m., when more than 60 professional and amateur artists, writers, and other creators bring their work to Village Square Park for an afternoon of cultural appreciation. Info: chrisnihmey.com, www.stittsvilleva.com/artists-authors-in-the-park

MONDAY, JUNE 6 

Book launch: Sorting the Beef from the Bull: The Science of Food Fraud Forensics with Nicola Temple; 7 p.m. at Octopus Books Centretown, 251 Bank St., second floor. Free event. More info: octopusbooks.ca

THURSDAY, JUNE 9 

Book reading: Laundry Lines, the Escape Artist and the Lebanese Dishwasher, with author Ann Elizabeth Carson, Anita Kushwaha and Sonia Saikaley; 7 p.m. at Octopus Books Centretown, 251 Bank St., second floor. Free event. More info: octopusbooks.ca

SATURDAY, JUNE 11 

Mark Curfoot-Mollington will be signing copies of his new book, Albert and Ettore; 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., Books on Beechwood, 35 Beechwood Ave. Info: booksonbeechwood.ca

Book launch: In This Together: Fifteen Stories of Truth and Reconciliation with Danielle Metcalfe-Chenail and Steven Cooper; 2 p.m. at Octopus Books Centretown, 251 Bank St., second floor. Free event. More info: octopusbooks.ca 

THURSDAY, JUNE 16

Book launch: Thirteen Shells with author Nadia Bozak; 7 p.m., Octopus Books Glebe, 116 Third Ave. Free event. Info: octopusbooks.ca

SATURDAY, JUNE 18 

The ottawa small press book fair spring 2016 edition; 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. in room 203 of the Jack Purcell Community Centre (on Elgin, 20 Jack Purcell Lane). Admission free to the public; $20 for exhibitors, full tables, $10 for half-tables. Don’t forget the pre-fair reading usually held the night before at The Carleton Tavern. Info: rob_mclennan@hotmail.com, http://www.smallpressbookfair.blogspot.ca/2016/01/the-ottawa-small-press-fair-spring-2016.html, https://www.facebook.com/events/1113350358697823/