EgyptAir flight MS804 was forced to make three emergency landings in the 24 hours preceding its crash, according to reports in French media.

On three occasions the Airbus A320 was forced to turn around after taking off and return to its originating airport – Asmara in Eritrea, Cairo, and Tunis — after its warning systems signalled anomalies on board.

Each time it returned, it was quickly allowed to leave again after inspectors carried out a technical audit and found nothing amiss, the reports said.

All 66 passengers and crew died after the plane disappeared off radar screens and crashed in the early hours of May 19 while en route from Paris to Cairo.

EgyptAir’s chairman denied the claims Thursday.

Khaled Desouki / AFP via Getty ImagesEgyptians look at posters of the 66 victims of the EgyptAir MS804 flight.

“For me, it is not true,” Safwat Musallam said on the sidelines of the International Air Transport Association annual meeting in Dublin. He said flight MS804 had not experienced any maintenance issues before departure and that the plane was “normal”.

“We fully trust the aircraft and the pilot,” said Mr Musallam.

Alain Vidalies, France’s transport minister, said he could not confirm the reports, which said the plane had sent signals indicating smoke via the automatic Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System on the three earlier flights.

“We have  a sudden event which could point towards an attack. On the other hand we have other information which points more towards an accident,” Mr Vidalies told France Info radio.

The reports came as search teams narrowed the search radius for the wreckage from 3 miles to 1.2 miles.

On Wednesday French investigators said they had detected a signal from one of the plane’s black boxes. The discovery raises hopes that the data and cockpit voice recorders can soon be retrieved and could give insight into what caused the crash.

However, it will be at least a week before a specialist vessel will arrive carrying robots able to dive to the 1.8?mile-depth where the wreckage is believed to be, around 180 miles north of the Egyptian port of Alexandria.

Egyptian Armed Forces via APA still taken from video posted Saturday, May 21, 2016, on the official Facebook page of the Egyptian Armed Forces  shows some personal belongings and other wreckage from EgyptAir flight 804 in Egypt.