When you have problems, it often seems “when it rains it pours”, which leaves you feeling like you’ve reached a dead end in all the approaches you use to solve your hitches. While stress is common in daily life, clinical psychologist Moloko Modupe says “the stress hormone triggers the liver to produce more blood sugar that gives you energy in the moment of danger, but if the danger is long-term you’re at risk for type 2 diabetes.” She however says there are methods you can use to deal with and lessen stress, and attain full control of your life.

RECOGNISE WHAT IS CAUSING THE STRESS

For anyone hoping to crack a problem in life, problem identification is the chief step because you cannot resolve a matter you know nothing about. Modupe advises that you identify what is stressing you first, as this is the first step that brings you closer to taking action. “Instead of worrying yourself and letting your problems beat you down, take time to sit with yourself and determine your stressors, collect strength and attack them head-on,” she says. 

CONCENTRATE ON WHAT YOU CAN CONTROL

You can’t control everything, and thinking that you can is one of the things that creates stress. Modupe points out that the most unkind thing you can do to yourself is attempting to take control over uncontrollable things. “After you have pinned down what is stressing you, determine the best possible way to tackle it and don’t waste your energy on what is beyond your control, because this can be paralyzing and stop you from moving forward.”

SPLIT YOUR TIME APPROPRIATELY

A day has 24 hours, yet time is still one of the most important stressor for numerous people, and they often wish there were more hours in a day for them to be able to get through their to-do list. Modupe says lack of time management is what causes a lot of people stress, and the ability to manage time can be an expertise worth acquiring in order to reduce stress.  

ACCEPT MISTAKES

“Perfectionism is impossible because no human being can ever be perfect,” Modupe says, adding that this is the state of mind that exaggerates stress. Attempting to be perfect and to not make any mistakes only puts pressure on you and can aggravate anxiety, on top of being exhausting.

SET APPROPRIATE BOUNDARIES

Modupe explains that not being able to say no to certain requests and striving to please everyone can lead to anxiety that could have been avoided. She adds that having boundaries and guarding your time well can mean more time for yourself, reducing the quantity of stress that come with life.

AVOID ALCOHOL AND CAFFEINE

While people often hit the bottle when feeling stressed, Modupe points out that to reduce stress the best thing you can do for yourself is to limit your intake of all drinks containing caffeine and alcohol. “Despite the misconception that exists over alcohol intake, alcohol, caffeine and nicotine are stimulants and this means they increase your level of stress rather than reduce it,” adding that “refined sugars should also be avoided as often as possible as they can lead one to feel irritable”.

DEDICATE TIME TO A PHYSICAL ACTIVITY

“Stressful circumstances escalate the amount of stress hormones such as adrenaline in any human body, therefore physical exercise can be used as a substitute to activate the unnecessary stress hormones and return your body and mind to a relaxed state,” says Modupe, advising that people take a simple walk outside or a jog around their neighbourhood every now and then.

 

 

 