The Blackpoll Warbler is the last of our spring warblers to pass though the region as they migrate north to the Hudson Bay Lowlands.

Brian Morin / Ottawa Citizen

It’s hard to image that spring migration is almost over and the summer months are upon us. 

After last weekend’s heat wave, it did feel like mid summer, but although June 20 is officially the first day of summer for us the bird calendar works differently.  We are now into the peak breeding season period for most local species and over the next three or four weeks many young will be fledged.  

Unlike our yearly calendar, which is divided into four distinct seasons, a bird’s seasonal calendar overlaps, some seasons longer and others shorter. For some species, spring migration started in mid-February and for others mid-June. Fall migration, which will be upon us by early July, will last until early December for some species.

For birds, the end of June will signal the first fall migrants to begin their southbound journey. The first main group of birds that will be sighted are shorebirds (usually non breeders or nest failures) and by mid-July, hundreds will be found in suitable habitat along rivers, sewage lagoons and wet fields.

Another sign that the breeding season will be coming to an end is the flocking of European Starlings and Common Grackles. By mid-July the first Yellow Warblers, Northern Waterthrushes, Bobolinks and flocking swallows will beginning to migrate.  

The number of young birds in our area is on the increase with many young American Robins now fledged and I’ve received reports of Eastern Bluebirds with young, European Starlings fledged, young Blue Jays, and baby Killdeers too. In spite the lingering high water levels along the Ottawa River, both the Conroy Island Ring-billed Gull colony at Deschenes Rapids and the Lemieux Island colony near Remic Rapids now have many recently hatched young. 

The Great Egret are again nesting on Conroy Island as well as the Black-crowned Night-Herons and the Double-crested Cormorants. There are still numerous species that will be nesting locally over the next month. The Bald Eagles at Shirley’s Bay are feeding young too.  

The Whip-poor-will appears to be on the increase in Eastern Ontario. I’ve received a number of Whip-poor-will reports with birds being heard along the Carp Ridge, Larose Forest, Richmond, Munster and the Perth area. If you would like to hear a Whip-poor-will it is best to arrive in the area pre-dusk and wait. They usually start calling just after dusk. On May 29, my son Ben and I heard numerous Whip-poor-wills along Hwy. 60 between Renfrew and Barry’s Bay between 3 a.m. and 4 a.m. Some birds were continually calling close to the road.

With birds finding ample food in the wild, the number of feeder reports has dropped off during the past couple of weeks. It won’t be too long before young Northern Cardinals and House Finches are at your bird feeders.  The Ruby-throated Hummingbird is now back in numbers and is enjoying feeding at local hummingbird feeders. Remember to change the nectar in your feeder during heat waves every day or two, or the nectar will ferment and mould will grow. Read more on feeding hummingbirds at http://howtoenjoyhummingbirds.com.

The Constance Bay area continues to uphold its reputation for being the best location for Red-headed Woodpeckers. The Red-headed woodpecker has declined as a breeder in Eastern Ontario over the past 40 years due to habitat lost, fire suppression and possibly competition with European Starlings for nesting sites. Since being discovered near Constance Bay in June 2002, they had successfully bred every summer at an old burn site, except for the last two summers, only one bird was reported. With most of the dead poplars now decayed and fallen over, there are fewer dead trees for nesting. 

Further threats for this species come from collisions with cars, as they fly catch from fence posts along rural roads.  My only other nesting record of Red-headed Woodpecker at Constance Bay was in August 1974, also at an old burn site.  

I’d like to thank all birders, photographers and feeder watchers that sent reports and/or photographs during the past week. Please e-mail bird observations and/or photographs to: dilabiobirding@gmail.com   Subject line: “Ottawa Citizen Birds”.  For photos, please provide date, location, and photographer’s name and for bird reports, observer, date and location.  The birding Code of Ethics and guidelines of the Ottawa Field-Naturalists’ Club can be found at http://www.ofnc.ca/birding/Code-of-Conduct.pdf. To reach the Wild Bird Care Centre for orphaned and injured birds call 613-828-2849. Report bird bands to www.pwrc.usgs.gov/BBL/bblretrv/.  Access to Shirley’s Bay is restricted. You must obtain permission from the Range Control Office before entering the area.  Please call 613-991-5740 for permission. View more great photos online at http://ottawacitizen.com/category/life/world-of-birds

The Red-headed Woodpecker is the only woodpecker that has a completely red head, and black and white body. Other woodpecker species have a small red patch on their heads, usually the nape area.

Bruce Di Labio / Ottawa Citizen

The American Bittern is a secretive bird and well camouflaged and inhabitants freshwater marshes in our region. Listen for its odd song: a loud pumping or booming sound which is produced though inflation of the esophagus. If you’re close enough you can hear the bittern gulping air.

Bruce Di Labio / Ottawa Citizen

The American Bittern is a secretive bird and well camouflaged and inhabitants freshwater marshes in our region. Listen for its odd song: a loud pumping or booming sound which is produced though inflation of the esophagus. If you’re close enough you can hear the bittern gulping air.

Bruce Di Labio / Ottawa Citizen

Dunlin in breeding plumage are easy to recognize by their black belly patch, reddish brown back and long slightly drooped bill. Formerly called the Red-backed Sandpiper this species is a regular migrant in our area and occasionally large concentrations are found along Lake Ontario at Presquíile and Amherst Island.

Brian Morin / Ottawa Citizen

The male Bobolink is unmistakeable in its spring colours. These birds can be found fluttering over hayfields and meadows are they deliver their bubbling, tinkling song.

Giovanni Pari / Ottawa Citizen

The Golden-winged Warbler is a rare but local breeder in our region. First recorded in 1951 this species is now annually reported from the Carp Hills along Thomas Dolan Parkway.

Victor Dillabaugh / Ottawa Citizen

The Blackpoll Warbler is the last of our spring warblers to pass though the region as they migrate north to the Hudson Bay Lowlands.

Brian Morin / Ottawa Citizen

Black-crowned Night-Herons continue to be reported from various locations in the Ottawa region.

Ted Lukaszewski / Ottawa Citizen

After a successful catch an Osprey heads back to its nest site.

Dave Pringle / Ottawa Citizen