OTTAWA — Close allies will curb or even halt the flow of intelligence to the Communications Security Establishment if the electronic spy agency is forced to spill its closely guarded secrets in open court, argues a senior CSE official.In turn, that could dry up the flow of "quality information necessary to ensure the safety and protection of Canadians and Canadian interests," says Scott Millar, director general of strategic policy and planning at CSE.Millar's warning comes in an affidavit filed in a legal tug-of-war between the federal government and a civil liberties watchdog over what CSE must disclose in court.

A sign for the Communications Security Establishment (CSE) is seen outside their headquarters in the east end of Ottawa on July 23, 2015. (Photo: Sean Kilpatrick/CP)The British Columbia Civil Liberties Association is suing the national surveillance agency, claiming it breaches the constitutional rights of Canadians by intercepting their private communications.The organization filed the lawsuit almost three years ago in the Supreme Court of British Columbia. But an initial phase of the legal saga played out this week in Federal Court in Ottawa with cross-examination of witnesses over disclosure of federal records in the broader case.The Ottawa-based CSE uses highly advanced technology to intercept, sort and analyze foreign communications for morsels of intelligence interest to the federal government. It is a member of the Five Eyes intelligence alliance that also includes the United States, Britain, Australia and New Zealand.Agency broke privacy laws: watchdogA federal watchdog declared earlier this year that the spy agency broke privacy laws by sharing information about Canadians with foreign partners.Certain types of metadata containing Canadian identity information were not being properly "minimized" — stripped of potentially revealing details — before being shared with the CSE's four key foreign partners.Metadata is information associated with a communication — such as a telephone number or email address — but not the message itself. Still, privacy advocates argue it can be highly revealing.CSE's activities are shrouded in secrecy, says Grace Pastine, the civil liberties association's litigation director.   "CSE is required to have policies in place to protect the privacy of Canadians, but it has not provided the details of those policies to Canadians." "CSE is required to have policies in place to protect the privacy of Canadians, but it has not provided the details of those policies to Canadians," she said in a statement. "We're calling on the federal government to state clearly who it is watching, what is being collected, what is being shared with foreign governments and how it is handling Canadians' private communications and information."In his affidavit, Millar says if CSE is forced to reveal sensitive material provided to it by a Five Eyes agency, or related to the alliance's processes, it is very likely to be damaging."A loss of faith in either the commitment or ability of CSE and the Government of Canada to protect such information could result in a significant decrease in information being shared with CSE and even a termination of access," he says.Grits expressed concerns during campaign"Damaging trust and respect through disclosure of information against the expressed wishes of one or more of our Five Eyes partners would have a detrimental effect on future collaborative efforts, consequently harming not only the interests of Canada, but also those of our closest partners."The federal Liberals have expressed concerns about CSE, committing during the election campaign to limit the agency's power by requiring a warrant to engage in the surveillance of Canadians, the civil liberties association noted.However, to date, the government continues to oppose the lawsuit.ALSO ON HUFFPOST:

Close

Plenary Group

Canada's electronic eavesdropping agency, CSEC, is getting a new $1.2-billion headquarters in Ottawa, the most expensive government building ever built. Here are some illustrations of the finished building.

NEXT ON HUFFPOST:

24 SUSSEX DRIVE, THE PRIME MINISTER'S RESIDENCE

ALSO ON HUFFPOST:

THE COOLEST HOUSES FOR SALE IN CANADA

This newly-built home just northwest of downtown Calgary not only looks cool and has excellent views of the city, it features some pretty slick amenities, such as built-in kitchen appliances, a 1,500-bottle wine cellar and five bedrooms across 5,300 square feet of living space.

This house in Montreal's old-money Westmount area was built in 1857 and, with its awesome wrap-around porch, may be the coolest heritage residential building for sale in Canada right now. It's actually three units -- a main house, a townhouse in the back and what's referred to as the "well house." Three bedrooms and two baths in the main house.

Can you say house with a view? This four-bedroom property features not only one of the best views out of anyone's living room window in the country, it also has an outdoor pool, sunk slightly below house level, with views all its own. Four bedrooms and an elevator in this house the realtor describes as an "amazing entertainment home."

Located in Vancouver's (now) prestigious neighbourhood of Kerrisdale, this house is described by the realtor as "an expression of West Coast Modernism." We're not sure what that means, but this house's situation next to an elegant outdoor pool is certainly eye-catching. Four bedrooms on 5,200 square feet of living space.

The coolest thing about this house is the location -- look at where it's sitting! Not for the faint of heart, this eight-year-old house sits perched 90 feet above the Atlantic Ocean on the Nova Scotia coast. Five bedrooms in this property that sits on 16 acres of land.

This house may look like a remade 19th-century train station, but look carefully: There's a two-car garage on one side. The house is actually only four years, and situated in pleasant Bedford, outside Halifax. The house features an elevator to the second floor, and a master bedroom with fireplace and six-piece ensuite bathroom.

Designed by Ottawa architect Barry Hobin, this 3,300-square-foot house near the city's ritzy Rockcliffe Park neighbourhood features a sixty-foot-high domed skylight and some pretty non-standard layouts.

From above, this house is shaped almost like a hexagon, but that's not the only cool thing about -- it's also located on an outer beach not far from St. John's. Dubbed "Burnt Island," the property is made of red cedar log and features three bedrooms in 3,100 square feet of living space.

This house's a unique take on the Roman column look is certainly controversial, but for those who do like the look, the home is a winner. Twelve thousand square feet of living space in this house with seven bedrooms, including two loft bedrooms, a rec room, an exercise room, a sauna and a wet bar.

The realtor describes this as a "modern day Mad Men entertainer's home," and there is definitely something "retro-modern" about this three-bedroom, 4,200-square-foot bungalow. The house has a "covered outdoor living room" -- only in Vancouver could you find that in Canada -- that features a pool with a hardtop.

This house that the realtor boasts was featured in Architectural Digest is something increasingly seen in the dense inner cores of Canadian cities -- modern architecture reflecting the traditional houses nearby. Promos for the house promise a "New York Upper East Side feel" in this five-bedroom property.

It may not look it from its industrial-modern design, but this house is, according to the realtor, a ravine oasis. Located in the city's upscale Lawrence Ave. area, the house features a 23-foot ceiling in the foyer, a glass spiral staircase, an indoor squash court and a sauna on 5,100 square feet of living space.

Not many pictures available of the exterior of this house, but just look at this pool! Possibly the awesomest indoor pool in a private residence in Canada. The rest of the house ain't bad, either: 12,000 square feet of living space, with nine bedrooms and 10 baths, a 25-foot-high ceiling at the main entrance, and underground car parking.

This is a huge house -- more than 8,500 square feet of living space. Besides the eye-catching front entrance, the house features a 22-foot barrel vaulted entrance and more than 500 feet of private waterfront. There's also a three-car garage.

The realtor promises an "indoor and outdoor lifestyle" in this oceanfront house in West Van. The house's three levels overlook a central atrium and the lower level features a heated swimming pool and jacuzzi. The house has an elevator, naturally, and a boat ramp.

Located about 100 kilometres outside Montreal, this summer "cottage" is located on a private peninsula on Lac du Nord. The house features an infinity pool, a wine cellar, and a movie theatre. And oh yeah, there are bedrooms too, six of them.

Next

CSEC 'Spy Palace'

Canada's electronic eavesdropping agency, CSEC, is getting a new $1.2-billion headquarters in Ottawa, the most expensive government building ever built. Here are some illustrations of the finished building.