The Good Genius: IBB And The South Media

Ndagi Abdullahi        — Jun 3, 2016  3:47 pm |

This week, I will like to resume my discussions on General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida and his media detractors who are hell-bent on painting him black. Though I am in point of fact using General Babangida as a case study here since, and as I have said before, this disparaging section of the Nigerian media is evidently pursuing an agenda of painting all of our national leaders from the North black. So, I will not be talking about General Ibrahim Badamasi alone.

The fact is that the Nigerian press has become parochially ethnocentric over the decades with the Yoruba press in particular leading in this reprehensible habit of whitewashing Nigerian leaders from their region while painting Nigerian leaders from other parts of Nigeria black.

The Yoruba media will not forgive General Babangida, and General Abacha, for, according to the Yoruba media, preventing M.K.O. Abiola from becoming the president of Nigeria. I will not delve into the issue of the veracity of this claim here. I will parenthetically, however, point out that both General Babangida and General Abacha emphatically denied preventing Abiola from becoming the president of Nigeria.

In any case, my focus here is on the ignoble manner in which the Yoruba media deliberately and purposefully continue to paint General Babangida, General Abacha, and other Northern leaders, as the worst things to have ever happened to Nigeria. It is quite unfortunate that many Northerners have kept mute and not seen the need to refute and controvert the blatant lies these people with a hidden agenda have been spreading through their print and electronic media.

We, Northerners don’t believe and will not accept this denigration of our Northern leaders by the Southern media. Most of our leaders from the North are not guilty of most of the spurious allegations leveled against them by the malevolent pressmen from the South.

To be more specific, General Babangida was not the one who introduced corruption to Nigeria; General Babangida didn’t cancel the June 12 elections to prevent a Yorubaman from becoming the president of Nigeria; General Babangida did not pocket any $12.4 billion oil windfall while in power; General Babangida didn’t introduce SAP to destroy the Nigerian economy, in fact SAP would have turned the Nigerian economy around for the best had the Yoruba people not arrested and aborted the development of SAP midway into its implementation…

… and General Abacha did not die eating apples in the hands of prostitutes imported from India or whatever lie of a country these shameless pressmen from the South are claiming; moreover, General Abacha did not steal billions of Naira to hide in foreign accounts across European capitals. The so-called ‘Abacha Loots’ were national funds strategically stashed by the Federal Government in foreign accounts to cushion an impending international sanction against Nigeria by the G7 in those days.

The civil war of Biafra was not a deliberate genocide against the Ibos by General Gowon; it was a national catastrophe brought upon the Ibos and the rest of Nigeria by the rebellion of secession of the Biafran generals. But the Ibo media have successfully turned the story round and are now maliciously blaming General Gowon for massacring a fabricated two million Ibos.

The problem is that our national leaders from the North have not mastered the art of telling their own side of the story and defending themselves against the mischievous attacks of the South media.

But if our leaders don’t tell their own side of the story, these scribblers will not mind spending 30 years, and forever, painting them as ‘evil geniuses’ and as the worst leaders ever to rule over Nigeria.

This is while the same South media will not say anything bad about our national leaders that are from the South. Tell me, when was the last time you saw the Yoruba media saying anything bad about Chief Olusegun Obasanjo? They are instead busy painting Obasanjo as the best thing to ever happen to Nigeria.

 

Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="http://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a>

comments powered by

« Previous Article

Ogoni Cleanup: Soul Reviving Exercise - Minister

Next Article »

17 Dead As Indian Police Clear Sect From Occupied Park