The Aftermath: "I actually sent the pic to both my parents and they had very different reactions. Initially my dad freaked TF out, while, as you can see, my mom was so happy. Both of them adore my boyfriend and treat him like family, but my dad was definitely worried about how young we are. My mom is so laid-back so she was thrilled. When I told them it was a prank, my dad thought I was lying and that I really was engaged. Haha! I finally had to have Tim text him to tell say it was a joke. When I confessed to my mom, she literally wrote back, 'You are so lame, but I'm kind of relieved! Love you both.' LOL!" 5. Caitlin, 24 Relationship Status: "We've been dating for six months."

The Aftermath: "My mom was onto my shenanigans right away. She actually read the previous article about the wedding dress prank, so I think she was like, 'Girl, please!' I decided to leave her hanging after my first text and when I didn't respond for a while, she started to question whether or not it was real. When I finally told her it was a prank, she laughed it off. As you can tell, my mom loves a good GIF too. I love her sense of humor and I wasn't surprised she was game to joke around. Love you, Mom!"  6. Maya, 23 Relationship Status: "Single AF."

The Aftermath: "I didn't think she would believe me because she knows I'm single AF, but when I brought up my long-term high school boyfriend — who I'm still good friends with — she had some words for him. My mom thinks the world of me and my sister, and we pretty much tell her everything. I don't typically prank her, so she was a little shocked. She was happy it wasn't true though, because she's convinced that any man truly fit for her daughter would definitely seek approval from her and my dad first before proposing. Future hubby, if you're out there reading this right now, take note." 7. Lauren, 24 Relationship Status: "I've been in a relationship for a year and a half."

The Aftermath: "I also sent the photo to my cousin, because I figured she'd see it right away and I knew I'd get a good response out of her. She immediately texted me back and when I didn't answer, she called me. When I didn't answer her call, she texted me again, but before I could even call her back, she texted my sister. They were freaking out, and after seeing the angry texts they were exchanging, I got scared that my mom would have an even worse reaction, so I responded to my own text to make sure she knew it wasn't real."Here is the exchange between Lauren's cousin and sister:

"My cousin was annoyed, but my sister said 'I'M GONNA KILL YOU!' I think I'll steer clear of both of them for a while." 8. Carly Relationship Status: Single

The Aftermath: "After my mom ridiculously asked me, 'Who's the lucky guy?' as if she wouldn't know who my boyfriend was if I had one, I had to tell her it was a joke. To which she replied, 'Aww snap!!!' Does anyone even say that anymore? No, they don't. Except for moms." 9. Lauren, 25 Relationship Status: "My boyfriend and I have been dating for two years."

The Aftermath: "I haven't heard from her in 24 hours. Not since I got that last text. I'm pretty sure she knows it was a joke, but I'm not 100. Three words: Jedi mind tricks."All the rings featured in this post provided by Swarovski.Get non-boring fashion and beauty news directly in your feed. Follow Facebook.com/CosmoBeauty.Follow Charles on Twitter and Instagram.