Sometimes, it is hard to keep up with all the headlines and the goings-on, with a week being an exceptionally long time in news. But don't worry, folks, we've got you covered. If you've been busy over the last week, or simply want a digest bulletin of news, we've got a list of our most-read stories from the past seven days. Below are five of the biggest talking points, so you no longer have to miss a thing...

Weekly roundup

Sunday - 21 best pictures from MTV Crashes Coventry at the Ricoh Arena

Thousands of people enjoyed two nights jam-packed with huge acts as MTV Crashes came to Coventry.The huge Ricoh Arena event saw some of the biggest performers and DJs take to the stadium stage - with almost everyone getting a big response from the crowd. Click here for the best pictures from the event.

Monday - Dad of three who raped two teenage girls after getting them drunk handed 16-year jail sentence

A man who raped two under-age girls after inviting them back to his flat and plying them with so much vodka that they were ‘paralytically drunk’ has been jailed for 16 years.Mark Jackson, who also sexually assaulted a third girl on a later occasion when she was also drunk, was ordered to register as a sex offender for life following his conviction. Read more here.

Tuesday - Coventry takes in more Syrian refugees than any other UK city

Coventry has taken in more Syrian refugees than any other UK city according to new government statistics.The city provided a home for 105 people fleeing the war-torn state between October and March.The refugees were given a home in Coventry as part of the government’s Syrian Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme.Coventry City Council was one of 71 councils around the country which volunteered to be part of the scheme.Since March more have arrived and the number now stands at 194.For more, click here.

Wednesday - Dashcam footage of mugger trying to steal motorbike in Coventry

A mugger caught on dashcam as he tried to steal a motorbike has been jailed for 20 months.A Coventry motorist captured on a dashcam in his car a youth attempting to steal another young lad’s off-road bike.The footage shows the victim walking away from his mugger with a bloodied face on Addison Road in Kerseley.The incident happened on Friday September 4 2015 and his attacker was sentenced at Warwick Crown Court on April 13.Watch the video above.

Thursday - Coventry man turns detective to solve crime

A DIY crime fighter from Coventry took justice in to his own hands after police failed to investigate promptly.The Keresley man turned detective after someone sneaked into his garden one Saturday night and stole around £1,000 worth of items.He rang the police after he found out who the culprit was, and urged officers to take action.But after no-one from Coventry Police turned up he took matters in to his own hands.For the full story, click here.

Friday - CCFC chairman says club has plan B stadium and academy site

Coventry City chairman Tim Fisher has told supporters the club has identified a site outside Coventry for a possible new stadium and Academy base.Mr Fisher stressed the option was only a back-up and that club officials preferred a potential ground share with Coventry Rugby Club at Butts Park Arena when he made the revelation during a Supporters’ Consultative Group meeting last week.He also said the club still retained hope that a long term deal could be agreed at the Ricoh Arena.For more on that, click here.